# The Languages of the Galaxy

As the galaxy rapidly becomes more interconnected, spoken language becomes a bigger and bigger concern. Language diversity even within the borders of a single empire is huge, with colonisation of worlds breeding new dialects and languages- not to mention the existing spread of languages on the capital alone. With this in mind, the creation of simplfied, standardised "trade tongues" has been of critical importance for facilitating both intra- and interspecies trade.

### Humanity
As is to be expected of a people as fiercely independent and nationalistic as humanity, individual languages have not died out. While a small number of languages account for the majority of native speakers within TerraGov space, there are still thousands of discrete languages spoken across human space. Major languages include English, Mandarin Chinese, Spanish, Hindi and Russian. In addition to the traditional languages, a number of "union languages" have formed within humanity, mostly to facilitate cross-borders cooperation. Examples include Eurocommon, Unified Arabic Script, Latinoamericano, Pan-Maritime-Asiatic, Neo-Turkic, and many others. None, however, have become as dominant as the language of business on Earth- Anglosinitic, or as it is more commonly (and perhaps brashly) known, Galactic Common. Galactic Common was adopted as humanity's official "trade tongue" around the time of first contact, to be used as a standard communication method with alien species. To this end, learning Galactic Common as a second language is extremely common on Earth, with around 99.5% of the world's population being fluent in its use.

Within humanity, however, knowledge of a foreign language is generally a formality. While humans tend to be fluent in at least their native language and Galactic Common, and often in their nation's "union language", translation software for human tongues is widespread and cheaply available- allowing for quick and easy understanding of almost any other human via instantaneous translation.

Colonial languages have also sprung up, mostly as creoles born of the varied settlers who came to live there. A key example is Martian- a language created by the melting pot of East Asian, European and American settlers, and then contributed to by people of all creeds and colours. Martian is an extremely diverse language, although learners who are already familiar with Sinitic, Japonic, Latin or Germanic tongues are likely to recognise at least a few of the words. Colonial languages are also shaped by their distance from the controlling hand of Earth- an example being the Novorusskii language of the SSC, which has developed along alternate lines to standard Home Russian along the past few centuries. While its differences are not as stark as Martian versus its mother languages, the differences are still great enough that a speaker of one will struggle to fully understand the other- even if the two are mostly mutually intelligible.

### Lizardkind
Lizardkind has a similar situation to humanity: several thousand languages are still spoken across Tizira, and the wider empire as a whole. The most common language is Oskmarzelisk (colloquially known to humans as High Draconic), spoken in the previous United Kingdom of Oskmarzel, where the capital Zagoskeld is located. Other major languages include Valyngisk, Noqsisk, Tremonde, Allma, and Fermalisk. A variant of Oskmarzelisk is also used as the Empire's "trade-tongue", known to humans as Draconic.

Lizard society is generally less accomodating with language variation than humanity. While thousands of languages are used, Oskmarzelisk is the only official language in the Empire and has been for the past 200 years, used for all official communications, trade and business, as well as being the language of schooling and the military. To this end, the language is spoken fluently across almost the entire empire, and other languages are sidelined in its favour. This has led to a decline in the Empire's other languages, which many view as an attempt by the central government to culturally dominate the planet and reduce regional autonomy.

### Moths
The Moths have a complicated history with language, possibly because their language is quite complex in itself. Traditional Mothic is a language of two halfs- the spoken component is important, but the true meaning of a moth's words are conveyed via body language- movements of the eyes, antennae and wings. This naturally creates problems for interspecies communication, and as such the admiralty board recommends the use of a standardised form of mothic omitting body language. This is frequently called "Phrasebook Mothic" and contains over twice the number of words that Traditional Mothic does- mostly to convey emotion, intent, and anything else which would ordinarily be handled by body language.

Language amongst the moths is as diverse as the fleet is large, with almost every ship having its own variance from Traditional Mothic. The standards set forward by the fleet authorities are not frequently used on the ships of the fleet. Most moths instead will learn the local dialect of the ships they frequently visit, and attempt to wing it should they need to travel beyond that. The only real exception to this is when moths travel beyond the fleet itself, as the trade tongue is the only one that most non-moths are familiar with. As a result, moths off of the fleet tend to use Phrasebook Mothic such that they can actually be understood by non-moths (via the aid of translation equipment).

### Ethereals
Following the Ethereal uplifting by humanity, Galactic Common became the official language of the Ethereal people. Since then, it has grown to become dominant amongst the Ethereals, with around 70% of the population in TerraGov space speaking it fluently. Several loanwords and slang terms from the Ethereals have become commonplace within this population, having unofficially become part of the GalCom dictionary.

Amongst Ethereal employees of corporations, methods of concealing communication have become popular, allowing ethereals to complain about their working conditions and bosses without drawing attention from their employers. To this end, a semi-official "language" has been adopted by many ethereals in this situation, known colloquially as Voltaic. Via manipulation of electrical discharge in their throat (not dissimilarly to Mongolian throat-singing), Ethereals are capable of producing a morse-code like series of sparks and jolts, which is used as a method of talking without talking. Coupled with their impressive range of hearing, the Ethereals can use this to communicate away from prying ears.