# Mars: Fuelling Humanity

Fact Sheet:
* The capital city of Mars is New Osaka, in the Arabia Sector. Originally founded as Oda Colony, the city has expanded to have a population of 10 million and hosts most of the planet's administrative and governmental functions. It is also known as the Red City, due to its red rock buildings constructed from local materials... and due to the frequent sandstorms that roll through its streets. It's not uncommon for entire weeks to be characterised by dust hanging heavy in the air.
* The planet has a population of 850 million, spread mostly across the northern hemisphere where the flatter land permits more extensive construction.
* Much of the planet's wealth comes from its plasma mines (of which 65% are in the Amenthes sector), although other minerals are also in relative abundance. Other major sectors include manufacturing, spacecraft construction, chemical production, and financial services. Tourism, funnily enough, does not rank amongst the top sectors, quite possibly because nobody wants to stare at endless dust.
* Mars is the subject of ongoing terraforming attempts: a stable atmosphere has been introduced alongside enough vegetative life to sustain it, as well as a substantial amount of water, but much of the planet is still arid, useless dust. Future efforts are intended to focus on increasing soil fertility and planting a number of forests which are intended to act as the planet's lungs, similarly to the Amazon on Earth.
* The planet's moons, Phobos and Deimos, are home only to small research outposts and mining operations, and host a population of around 1000 between them.

As the closest planet to Earth, Mars has always captured Humanity's interest as a potential future expansion route off of our home planet. And in the late 21st Century, this goal would first be realised, with the foundation of a series of small scientific outposts. It would not be until the mid-22nd Century that the true value of Mars would be realised with the discovery of plasma in the Amenthes sector. Acting as the key to FTL flight and being used in more and more manufacturing processes, the mining operations on the planet would expand rapidly, and this necessarily drew more settlers to work the mines. Soon, a network of new, organised colonies would be set up by the companies with stakes in the mining operation.

Alongside the foundation of these colonies, a major terraforming campaign was started with the aim of making the planet liveable, and this would proceed throughout the following centuries, with water being sourced from Neptune to create artificial water bodies, and large artificial atmospherics machines being constructed to provide a thick enough atmosphere to allow for plant life to survive. This atmosphere would become self-sufficient in the course of around a century, allowing the people of Mars to discard their helmets and bulky space suits while living on the planet- and further facilitating expansion of the colonies there.

Now, Mars stands as a symbol of Humanity's ability to overcome harsh conditions, even if the planet is not Humanity's largest nor most prosperous colony.

# Harvest: Humankind's Breadbasket

Fact Sheet:
* The capital city of Harvest is Carter's Prospect, which is also the largest city on the planet, boasting a population of 750,000. The city is particularly green, with numerous parks and open spaces, and very little of the city has buildings above a few storeys.
* The planet as a whole has a population of 6 million, spread across the extremely fertile central band. Fewer live in the vast forests of the north and south.
* Harvest is an Agriworld, with an economy very strongly based upon farming. Food from Harvest feeds humanity throughout the galaxy, with millions of tonnes being produced per annum. Other economic sectors include mining, logging and tourism.
* The several moons of Harvest are barren, and as such are unpopulated.

Harvest, in the Demeter system, is one of Humanity's more important colonies, due to the incredible fertility of the soil there. Classified as an Eden planet, Harvest has a perfect atmosphere for humanity, as well as a remarkably mild climate. By all accounts, it was a perfect planet for humankind to settle, and humans have taken excellently to life there. The population is austere, hard-working and communal, and the people pride themselves on this fact, viewing offworlders with a degree of suspicion. Rural areas are dominated by colossal farms, producing huge quantities of food crops, as well as large amounts of animal products. In urban areas, food processing plants are common, turning the harvest from the countryside into high quality products to be shipped across the galaxy.

# New Moscow: (Former) Home of Space Communism

Fact Sheet:
* The capital city of New Moscow is (the aptly named) New Moscow City. With a population of 12 million, New Moscow City is the most populous city not only of New Moscow, but of the entire SSC (of which it is the capital), and is famous for its brutalist architecture and generally oppressive urban style (though this has somewhat softened since the collapse of the Third Soviet Union). Since the collapse, the city's culture has flourished, and a remarkable amount of modern art and architecture has since blessed its streets. On Workers' Square there is a popular public theatre collective which does showings, and in general the city has become a major destination for artists.
* New Moscow is also the closest major human colony to Nanotrasen's spinward stations, and as such is a major destination for Nanotrasen workers. In addition, it serves as the major transport hub for the region, with major spaceports and shipyards ready to service travellers to the SSC.
* The planet has an earth-like climate, though is generally colder than the mother planet. The overall population is around 250 million.
* The primary exports from the planet are minerals, chemicals and agricultural goods, with manufacturing and tourism being other major sectors.
* As is to be expected of a former colony of the Third Soviet Union, Novayarossiyan is the official language of the planet- Galactic Common is generally spoken and understood in the major population centres, but those with no knowledge of Novayarossiyan will struggle as they venture further into the countryside.
* Space has now been corrupted by capitalism. All is lost.

New Moscow has had a tumultous past. Originally founded by and serving as the capital of the Third Soviet Union, the planet first came into humanity's grasp under less than ideal circumstances. Atrocities by the leaders of the TSU alongside political repression, famine, and a generally poor standard of living would come to a head in the August Revolution, seeing the fall of the Soviet leadership on the planet, and beginning the final collapse of the Third Soviet Union. Following this violence and the subsequent rise of the Spinward Stellar Coalition, the planet would go on to experience a renaissance, as the industrial capacity grew and culture flourished. Today, New Moscow is a shining example of excellence in humanity's border regions, and its meteoric rise seems set to continue.

# Ancienne: Remnants of a Lost Civilisation

Fact Sheet:
* Ancienne has no official capital, with only small scattered outposts across the planet's surface. The closest the planet would have is Chronos Orbital, an orbital platform servicing the aforementioned outposts and acting as more permanent housing for workers coming to and from the planet. The overall "permanent" population of researchers and explorers across the entire planet is around 50,000, though there may be thousands more "wildcat" operations which are undocumented.
* Ancienne is believed to be a major colony of an ancient empire, with around 85% of the planet's surface covered in ruined cities. Such an ecumenopolis is surely filled with incredible discoveries- if they can only be found. The outposts across the planet act as research bases and salvage hubs, bringing in items of interest and finding out what they are and how they work.
* Some plans exist to resettle the planet, but they're not particularly far into the process and none have yet garnered attention from TerraGov.

Humanity is far from the first civilisation to make it to space, and it is not going to be the last. Remnants of ancient civilisations dot the galaxy, occasionally being unearthed during groundwork on new colonies or by intrepid explorers. However, no find as of yet has been able to compete with Ancienne, in the Saramix system. An ancient ecumenopolis which has been tied to the long-extinct Scellian people, cities comprise about 85% of the planet's surface, with the rest consisting of salt deserts which are believed to have once been oceans. Damage to the planet's ecosystem are irreversible without extensive terraforming- the likes of which are presently being tried on Mars. That said, despite the lack of surface water and failing atmosphere, the planet is also a hotbed of activity due to the incredible finds hidden within its labyrinthine concrete jungle. Scellian technology was far ahead of our own, and as such almost everything that can be salvaged in sufficiently working condition to be studied is worth an incredible amount. This has attracted the brave, intrigued, and desperate to try to hash out a living exploring the perilous ruins and bringing back salvage.