Materials in the Bluespace Age

Plasma
Plasma is a novel material, first discovered by mankind in limited quantities on Mars in the Amenthes region, from which it draws its scientific name, Amenthium. Various ores of plasma exist, including Amenthite, Memnonite, Thaumasiatite, and Hellasite, each with varying amounts of plasma and other impurities. Of these, Amenthite is the most commonly found in human space, comprised of around 78% plasma oxide, with 17% silicon and 5% trace impurities including iron oxides and carbon.

Plasma is held as being almost wholly responsible for enabling humanity's rapid ascension into the space age and beyond, as it is instrumental in the creation of viable FTL engines- however, the supplies found within easy reach of Earth are quite finite, and to sustain the modern plasma-based economy it was necessary to look further afield in search of larger and larger deposits. Many corporations began private expeditions in search of new sources of the purple stuff, and were generally met with limited success. Cybersun Industries famously found a source of gaseous plasma which could be extracted from a gas giant in a nearby system to Sol, but the expense of this operation limited their financial gain. Other non-viable sources were explored, including extraction from plasma-rich swamps on Hawkings-Eta IV, but very little was to be gained from such expensive methods. Any viable plasma mining operation would need to find a source of solid ores to remain profitable.

And then, as part of a speculative expedition into uninhabited space in the Spinward sector, Nanotrasen hit the motherlode. Indescipheres had been known to humanity for decades- it was discovered and charted, but very little surface probing had been undertaken due to its extremely hostile environment. What little data there was suggested remarkable mineral wealth, but no company had been willing to take the financial risk involved with setting up mining operations in deep space on a planet that was so dangerous. As a hail mary, Nanotrasen decided to organise a small expedition to survey the surface in person. What began as a random shot in the dark ended up becoming the largest discovery of plasma in human history, with the funding given for a mining and research outpost to be constructed in orbit of the planet by the end of the day, and construction beginning on "Space Station 13" within 2 weeks. The plasma found on Indescipheres was also of a remarkable purity, with plasma ore from the planet containing as high as 97% plasma content.

As a result of this find, Nanotrasen now holds close to a monopoly on plasma within human space. Their competitors, naturally, resent them for this, particularly Cybersun Industries, who are in second place for plasma production and seek to usurp the top spot at any cost.

Plasma, while extremely reactive in its base form, forms very stable alloys with numerous metals, including iron (plasteel), titanium (plastitanium), aluminium (plasmalum), and copper (plasma brass).

Bluespace Crystals
Bluespace Crystals first became known to humanity in 2359, following an event that collectively opened the world's eyes to the material's incredible power. In a near catastrophic event, Zhang's Comet deviated from its expected close flyby of Earth into a direct collision course with Toronto, Canada. As TerraGov scrambled to organise an emergency response, the comet suddenly, and incredibly mysteriously, vanished- and reappeared near the Moon, which it promptly crashed into. Investigating the impact crater, researchers were puzzled to find a massive number of brilliant blue crystals in colossal veins throughout the rock- crystals which, when energised, via radiation, or even something as simple as crushing, would result in short range teleportation. Scientists theorised that the comet was hit by a large burst of radiation from a solar flare, resulting in a large scale translocation of the crystals, and, in turn, the comet.

As testing on the crystals progressed further, researchers discovered that they were no mere mundane material- Bluespace crystals acted as a manifested link to a parallel dimension, which came to be known as the Bluespace.

Eventually, it was discovered that bluespace crystals could be synthesised via a combination of plasma with diamond at extreme pressure and heat, which, alongside the newfound abundance of plasma from Indescipheres, was instrumental in kickstarting humanity's Bluespace Age.

