# TerraGov: Humanity's Beacon of Cooperation

Humanity stands in stark contrast to many of the other species of the Galaxy: amongst the humans, central power was never truly able to overcome dividing forces, and so, humanity is today "united" loosely under TerraGov.

Existing as a continuation of the United Nations, with elements of the European Union and NATO included, TerraGov is in many ways similar to its predecessors, but takes a more active role in governing and policy-making. In essence, humanity now exists as a loosely knit federation, with individual states having a degree of sovereignty over their own lands while still having to abide by the federal laws and rules. These laws and rules are decided upon by the TerraGov Senate, located in New York, at which each country has one delegate. Politics on the homeworld are particularly cut-throat: in order to secure votes towards resolutions they desire, larger states such as the US, China, India, the European Commonwealth, Russia, Arabia and Brazil commonly exert economic and political control over smaller satellite nations. Political intrigue, backroom dealings, economic sabotage, and political killings dominate this new world order. Megacorporations also have their own influence, doing much the same as the larger nations. To be a leader of a small nation is to be subservient, or to risk being replaced by someone who is.

And yet, internally at least, the system works. Bills are passed, politics ticks along, roads are maintained and the trains run on time. For humanity as a whole, there has never been a better time for life expectancy or standards of living, even if political freedoms are quashed for the average citizen.

TerraGov also administrates colonial ventures, which typically are coordinated in two ways: "Centralised" colonies, and "Enterprise" colonies.

Centralised colonies, or C-Colonies, are directly administrated by TerraGov, and represent what the senate views as the best path forward for humanity. At present, their focus is on improvement of Alpha Centauri, with multiple C-Colonies having been founded in the region in recent years to support the presently existing E-Colonies and impose a more direct central control over the system. Enterprise colonies, on the other hand, are temporary charter mandates handed to corporations by the Senate for the official colonisation of new worlds in the name of Humanity. These charter mandates last for a fixed period of 25 years, after which TerraGov may vote to extend them, or revoke them to centralise the colony. In this way, E-Colonies will eventually transition to C-Colonies... or such is the idea. As with all things in TerraGov, corruption is baked into this system, and frequently larger corporations will find methods of getting votes to go towards extensions of charters- allowing them to continue to reap the profits of these newfound worlds.

While TerraGov does not impose direct control over such states as the SSC, it does maintain close relations with them, including a military presence of peacekeepers in the region, and economic and trading ties. Eventually it seems likely that the central government will attempt to bring them into the fold- but for now, these states are able to maintain some degree of independence from Humanity's central authority.

## Military
TerraGov possesses a unified army, replacing the need for a traditional army for member states. Recruitment is done from all member states, with no particular bias on who is able to serve.

The TerraGov military has not dropped completely the trappings of the UN, with the classic blue helmets and berets remaining on their heads while deployed domestically or as peacekeeping forces, alongside a host of patches and TG markings. In more active warzones, this is likely to be reduced to a single patch.

## Government
While TerraGov takes a mostly hands off approach to government in member states besides those policies handed down by the Senate, some particular regions have been deemed of too great international importance and of too great potential to drive conflict. These areas are directly administered by TerraGov, as "TerraGov International Districts", or TIDs. A few examples include the Manhattan Capital District (MCD), the TID of Ceuta, Melilla and Gibraltar, the TID of Hong Kong and Macau, the TID of the Crimea, and other such regions. These zones are under the jurisdiction of no member state, only of TerraGov itself, and free access to the facilities of these regions is given to all member states. This tends to lead to the areas attracting the elite of society- corporations in particular. Many of the larger cities in this regions could rightfully be deemed as megalopoli, colossal jungles of steel and concrete housing corporate headquarters, high end apartments, service hubs, and the playgrounds of the rich. Of these, the Manhattan Capital District stands above all others- an international zone formed around the TerraGov headquarters, the MCD is the home to most of the embassies and delegations of member states, as well as many of the world's largest corporations: Nanotrasen has its 195 storey headquarters building on the Upper East Side, overlooking Central Park, as an example.