# Roleplay and Character Notes: Humankind

# Core Systems
When creating a character from the Core Systems, there are a few things to consider:

1. What reason did your character have for taking a job this far from home? Are they a corporate climber, who took a position to advance their rank even if it meant moving far away? Are they running from their past in some capacity, and came out here to start over?
2. What is their reaction to being out here? The rims of human space are very different to life in the core; luxuries are rare, and even basic services like the internet are far worse than their equivalents back home. This could be a good prompt for roleplay; perhaps your character resents being out here because they can't get easy access to stuff they used to take for granted. Perhaps they enjoy the austerity, and view what they used to have access to as excessive. Perhaps they treasure the few luxuries they can import from home, even if they're at marked up prices.
3. How do they find their more local colleagues? Do they view them as provincial bumpkins? Are they eager to explore new cultures? Remember that divides within humanity are very well present, and one of the largest cultural divides in the modern day is between the core and the rim- think the divide between east and west of our own world, as an example.

Important things to note about the core systems:
- People from the core systems skew towards prejudice towards aliens. Often, their exposure to alien cultures has been lower, and many might have gone their entire lives without meeting more than a handful of aliens, if any at all. This might manifest as fear, or hatred, or perhaps just difficulty in adjusting to their new neighbours. Alternatively, you might skew positive, and have them be xenophilic; eager to learn new things and explore the unknown, and forge closer ties with aliens as a result, even if their naivete makes them make some mistakes. This is also closely related to their economic situation- poorer characters are more likely to have met aliens, as the aliens in the core systems trend poorer due to (unlawful) discrimination.
- Your choice of home planet will likely define a lot about your character. As a whole, the core systems are generally highly industrialised, densely populated, and skew "normal". That's not to say that there's no weirdness about them, but the core systems are not, as a whole, where things such as outlandish religions or exotic cultural tenets come from; that tends to be more the rim's forte. Typical types of planets around the core systems include industrial worlds (such as Adasta, Astarte, or the Moon), extraction-based worlds (such as Venus or Saturn), resort worlds (such as Idyllus), or just worlds that are primarily service-based economies where people live and most industry is in the form of small artisanal production (Earth fits this bill, since most heavy manufacturing has been moved off world). Smaller portions include agri-worlds and research worlds, as most of these are found in the further reaches.