# The Moths

>"Stellar Shock: a term attributed to the societal and political upheaval caused by undergoing 1500 years worth of technological development in less than 50."
 
- On the Difficulties of Enlightenment and the Ethereal People, Dr F. Jimenez

## Description:

The Ethereals are a humanoid species hailing from the planet of Sprout- a densely jungle-covered planet with wide oceans and plentiful rivers. Near the oceans there are thick saltwater bogs, while inland rocky plateaus and tepuis, lush cenotes and occasional volcanoes dot the landscape. The skies have a constant cloud cover, and monsoons are frequent across almost the entire planet's surface. However, it is not the landscape itself that makes Sprout a planet of ecological interest, but the flora and fauna. Almost every living thing on Sprout thrives off of electricity. Via a complex ecosystem of beings that provide electricity via electrophoresis and electrochemistry, and those that consume electricity as their main source of energy. Amongst these "electrical consumers", Ethereals are the top of the food chain.

Ethereals themselves are a biological oddity, with an internal organ structure and life cycle that puzzles even the most decorated xenobiologists. Their skin is translucent, revealing both their blood- a complex, bioluminescent solution similar to battery compositions known colloquially as Liquid Electricity- and their internal organs, which are crystalline in structure. How exactly these crystals function is unknown. Analysis of the chemical makeup of Ethereals reveal that they are not carbon-based, but silicon-based, which has lead some to theorise that the internal working of an Ethereal is much like a flesh-and-blood machine.

### Ethereal Reproduction

Ethereals, as with most of Sprout's living organisms, are entirely sexless creatures- an oddity on the galactic stage, and instead reproduce by a form of inadvertent clonal budding.  
One of the most notable features of an Ethereal is their quasi-immortality- any catastrophic damage dealt to an Ethereal's body triggers a kind of pupation where crystalline structures surround the body, which rapidly regenerates itself to a more youthful state. This amazing process is not perfect and tends to introduce imperfections which build up over time, such that Ethereals are not _actually_ immortal and eventually reach a state where regeneration is no longer possible, however that is not the only side effect.

Once an Ethereal "hatches" from their crystal then they will leave its shattered remnants behind to naturally break down. These crystalline fragments are gradually eroded by the environment (or consumed by Sprout's fauna) but many of them will remain in the soil still primed with their progenitor's DNA, a reconstructive drive, and a small store of organic energy. Over the course of multiple regenerations by multiple Ethereals, these fragments accumulate and are naturally attracted to each other until they condense into a "seed crystal" that erupts from the earth and "regenerates" an entirely new Ethereal composed of composited genetic material from anyone who happens to have "died" in the surrounding area.

As Ethereal science was still something in its infancy when first contact was made, this process was not really widely understood by the Ethereals themselves who had many and various explanations as to where new Ethereals came from, ranging from divine providence to reincarnation (the latter being surprisingly closer to the truth than sceptical aliens might have expected).

Ethereals have no childhood stage; they are born fully mature from their crystals and "newborn" Ethereals even typically have vague and fragmented recollections of their many "parents"' memories, at least enough to lead them to a nearby settlement and allow them to converse mostly-intelligibly with whoever lives there.
This method of "accidental" reproduction essentially leaves Ethereals with no established family structure at all, it is impossible for a child to know their parent or vice versa, but very rarely Ethereals _do_ experience siblings. A "seed crystal" which grows to unusual size or is prevented somehow from emerging from the ground will occasionally produce multiple Ethereals after it emerges, either all at once or sequentially after "hatching" the first. These Ethereals in turn may look radically different, or be essentially clones of each other. 
This rare event is treated very differently by varying cultural groups on Sprout (or was, prior to their Great Enlightenment) but these groups of individuals are generally assumed to have some form of dramatic and fated destiny; for either good or ill.

## History

When first discovered by TerraGov's explorers, the Ethereals were in an Medieval age, similar to our own Middle Ages- an era of knights and chivalry, with feudal nobility ruling over petty fiefdoms and few (if any) strong, unified nations. While Ethereal nations trended towards autocracy, lack of children also means lack of any forms of hereditary inheritance; a fact which lead to regular civil wars and kept any individual nation from reliably outliving the death of its leader. 
TerraGov initially made the decision to observe the populace of the planet- however, an event would occur that would force them into contact with the natives: the Day of Fire. A TerraGov resupply vessel would suffer a malfunction in its thrusters while coming to dock at the observation post, resulting in them becoming jammed on. This pushed it (and the observation post) into the gravity well of Sprout itself, resulting in the entirety of the station crashing down nearby to a city on the surface. Survivors who were fortunate enough to jettison would now find themselves stranded on the planet, which had, until moments beforehand, been entirely unaware of the existance of aliens. The resulting fire from the crash burned around 20,000 square kilometers of jungle (an area roughly equivalent to modern-day El Salvador) before a monsoon was able to extinguish it, and this left TerraGov with a crisis to resolve. This resulted in the decision to uplift the people of Sprout, in what became known as the Great Enlightenment. Until this point, direct intervention with "primitives" was strictly forbidden by TerraGov.

The uplifting was not gentle, nor was it well received (at first). The Ethereals were ripped from their feudal institutions into the plasma age in less than 50 years. The decision sent waves across humanity, and the galactic scene- diplomatic protests from the Lizards (who viewed the act as an aggressive expansion by humanity into another species' territory) and the Moths (who viewed the act as an immoral interference with the natural development of another species) would create problems for the project, but once it was started, it was irreversible.

And so, the Ethereals would find themselves thrust onto the galactic stage.

### Fun Factoids:
* Sprout has three moons, of which one is able to maintain a breathable atmosphere, as well as a tropical climate. This moon, called Spring by the Ethereals, is now a resort world, with thousands journeying to it yearly to vacation.
* Sprout is located in a particularly isolated region of space, with the most direct route to Human space being via a nebula- too dangerous for most vessels. For this reason, the planet takes a long time to reach from the rest of inhabited space, and particular commitment is needed to visit.
* TerraGov advises remaining in and around major settlements while visiting Sprout, as the local flora and fauna are considered quite dangerous. Even in the larger cities, the possibility of a wild Volthound running rampant through the streets is (unfortunately) high. A secondary (and unspoken) reason for remaining in large settlements is the inherent risk of being kidnapped (or worse!) by reactionary militias.
* If you've been a member of the TGMC in the past 50 years, particularly as a peacekeeper, you've probably been deployed to Sprout to assist in the pacification efforts.
* Since Nanotrasen scientists shed additional light on where new Ethereals actually come from, some reactionary groups of Ethereals have begun attempting to create "Super Ethereals" by forcing their most successful warriors to successively regenerate in carefully cultivated spaces, without particular success.

### Sprout: From the Ashes
Sprout would undergo radical changes alongside the Ethereals during the Great Enlightenment. Major scale land recovery was undertaken, and the feudal society of old was replaced with an interim government set up by TerraGov to handle planetary administration until such a time as the Ethereals were capable of taking over for themselves. Power was seized from the autocrats and monarchs of old in doing so.

For the new planetary administration, a new city was needed, and this would be built in the remnants of the jungle that had burned during the Day of Fire. Vast towers of steel and concrete, alien to the Ethereals, would make up this new, concrete jungle, and the necessary infrastructure for a spacefaring civilisation was first laid here, including Sprout's first spaceport, intersystem communication relay, and TerraGov military installation at Fort Summer. Several TGMC divisions were stationed here during the Enlightenment and were critical in the pacification of Sprout.

While the planetary capital has brought Sprout to the space age, the planet still has many remote and inhospitable regions which have not yet been connected. It is estimated around 65% of the Ethereal homeworld is still covered in jungle that is impassable to most vehicles, leaving settlements that are almost impossible to reach by land. As air facilities are also lacking, these remote settlements are mostly cut off from TerraGov's influence, and are generally reachable only via small, dangerous roads, or by foot through the dense jungle.


### Ethereal Culture
Ethereal culture is particularly odd within the inhabited galaxy- while they had, prior to the Great Enlightenment, a very diverse range of homegrown cultural groups and individual societies, much of their history post-uplifting has been dominated by humanity, and as such, their cultural makeup has become homogenised and subsumed by humanity's. While they may not literally wear humanity's blue jeans and listen to their pop music, the influence of their "protectors" can be seen everywhere in modern Ethereal society. Native languages are dwindling, being replaced by Galactic Common. Traditional religion strains against the influence of human faiths. Long-held traditions are consigned to history. Efforts are being made by some to preserve the Ethereals' distinct history, but it seems in many ways to be a losing battle, as more and more Ethereals make the decision to leave behind their life on Sprout and head out into the great beyond in search of adventure.

Some of these attempts to preserve culture have come in the form of reactionary militias, made up (mostly) of the former warrior and priestly castes of Ethereal society. Wielding strong power and influence in the remote, cut-off hinterlands, these groups provide strong resistance to TerraGov's presence on the planet. While not strong enough nor bold enough to attempt attacks on the regions directly under TerraGov's influence, they are a perpetual threat in the border regions and cause serious problems for construction crews and frontiersmen in these areas. The task of expanding the frontier on Sprout is typically given to corporations via E-Colony charters. Nanotrasen is one of the many corporations involved in this process.

None of this is to say that Ethereals do not have a distinct culture. While the influence of humanity is extreme, they have maintained some elements of their heritage. In particular, Ethereal music remains a defiant area of their culture, particularly as music has major religious and cultural significance to the Ethereals.
