# Communications in the Bluespace Age
>"Greetings. You have connected to the Nanotrasen Spinward Communications Service. Be advised that use of this service is restricted to Nanotrasen personnel. Please be prepared to provide your Employee ID..."
 
-Automated voice on connection to the Nanotrasen Spinward Comms Service.
 
Since the invention of satellite communications, humanity has been strongly interconnected. Communications between opposite sides of the world could be done within milliseconds- real time calls, messaging, and the transfer of information and data in the blink of an eye. This changed somewhat as humanity spread to space- as distances grew larger, communication between the extremities of human space became harder. Throughout the space age, a wide array of galactic institutions and technological innovations were necessary to keep humanity connected, no matter where they went within human space.
 
### Comms Buoys
The workhorse of galactic communication, comms buoys act as broadcasters, receivers and relays for interstellar communications. The technology involved is not trivial- across the massive distances involved signals tend to become faint, being muddied by background noise and simply lost amongst the cosmos. Comms buoys, therefore, have to act to amplify and restore signals.
 
Most occupied systems in human space have a comms buoy. In core space, TerraGov operates a public network of these buoys, providing free communications to all citizens and registered vessels- although this network is far from the best available. Private companies also offer their own networks with faster speeds and other benefits. In the further reaches of human space, TerraGov does not operate a public network, leaving communications firmly in the hands of private companies. This makes talking to core space from the extremities an expensive process: as an example, the Spinward Stellar Coalition's state-owned comms company, Kosmokomm, offers internal data transfer at a rate of 1 U¢/gigabyte of data transferred. For external transfer, this increases exponentially with distance- when factoring in line-time rental from other companies and interservice expenses, this rate creeps to 50 U¢/gigabyte when sending/receiving data from Earth. The expense coupled with generally slow transfer rates (realtime transfer is even more expensive, so most opt for slower rates) mean that the extremities of human space are remote and have difficulties with communication.

The general slowness of the Extranet past the core has lead to some interesting developments (or regressions) in how data is handled in the further reaches of human space. Localised datacentres have sprung up in more populated regions such as the Australicus Sector or the Spinward Sector, acting as local hubs for the extranet. The massive amounts of data required to run these centres can't be sent via the buoys, so instead a new "sneakernet" has emerged, with bulk data in the order of exabytes being delivered by data couriers on a semi-regular basis. These couriers are also the delivery method of choice for critically important or secret information, which has made them a lucrative target for pirates; crack one open and hope that it's Nanotrasen's insider trading information, and not 2 petabytes of Tiziran pornos and the latest updates for last decade's video games.
 
Some companies (mostly the largest ones) operate their own comms networks. News organisations are one such group, typically operating services both such that they can broadcast news to customers, and so that they can rapidly receive information from all corners of human space. Megacorporations are another group that makes extensive use of private comms networks- Nanotrasen's network is the largest in the galaxy, stretching across the entirety of human space. Other companies such as Cybersun Industries and Interdyne Pharmaceutics have similar, but smaller, networks. For megacorporations, rapid communications are key to projecting power across the galaxy.

### Mail
For delivery of physical items, the TGFPS is TerraGov's state-operated postal service, offering a (relatively) cheap method of transporting mail and packages across human space.
 
Stamp collecting remains a popular hobby amongst mail enthusiasts, and with the wide variety of stamps made across human space there are plenty to collect.
