# Materials of the Bluespace Age
> "Just as previous ages have been defined by a primary material of interest (take, for example, the stone age, the bronze age, the age of steam, the silicon age, et cetera), our current epoch is defined by bluespace crystals. This bluespace age can be said to have started with the Zhang incident of 2459, and has, in the span of one century, advanced our understanding of the universe more than the previous 25 put together..."
- "Bluespace: A Century in Review": Dr Khánh Trong Pham, UCSF

### Plasma
Plasma is a novel compound, first discovered by mankind in limited quantities on Mars in the Amenthes region, from which it draws its scientific name, Amenthium. Various "ores" of plasma exist, including Amenthite, Memnonite, Thaumasiatite, and Hellasite, each with varying amounts of plasma and other impurities, and almost all coming from the vast plasma mines of Mars. Of these, Amenthite is the most commonly found in human space, comprised of around 78% plasma, with 17% silicon and 5% trace impurities including iron oxides and carbon.

Plasma is held as being almost wholly responsible for enabling humanity's rapid ascension into the space age and beyond, as it is instrumental in the creation of viable engines for long distance space travel- however, the supplies found within easy reach of Earth are quite finite, and to sustain the modern plasma-based economy it was necessary to look further afield in search of larger and larger deposits. Many corporations began private expeditions in search of new sources of the purple stuff, and were generally met with limited success. Cybersun Industries famously found a source of gaseous plasma which could be extracted from a gas giant in a nearby system to Sol, but the expense of this operation limited their financial gain. Other non-viable sources were explored, including extraction from plasma-rich swamps on Hawkings-Eta IV, but very little was to be gained from such expensive methods. Any viable plasma mining operation would need to find a source of solid ores to remain profitable.

And then, as part of a speculative expedition into uninhabited space in the Spinward sector, Nanotrasen hit the motherlode. Indescipheres had been known to humanity for decades- it was discovered and charted, but very little surface probing had been undertaken due to its extremely hostile environment. What little data there was suggested remarkable mineral wealth, but no company had been willing to take the financial risk involved with setting up mining operations in deep space on a planet that was so dangerous. As a hail mary, Nanotrasen decided to organise a small expedition to survey the surface in person. What began as a random shot in the dark ended up becoming the largest discovery of plasma in human history, with the funding given for a mining and research outpost to be constructed in orbit of the planet by the end of the day, and construction beginning on "Space Station 13" within 2 weeks. The plasma found on Indescipheres was also of a remarkable purity, with plasma ore from the planet containing as high as 97% plasma content. This ore was named Pudicitite, derived from the Latin word for purity.

As a result of this find, Nanotrasen now holds close to a monopoly on high-grade plasma within human space. Their competitors, naturally, resent them for this, particularly Cybersun Industries, who are in second place for plasma production (owning a dominating stake in the Martian mines) and seek to usurp the top spot at any cost.

Plasma, while extremely reactive in its base form, forms very stable alloys with numerous metals, including iron (plasteel), titanium (plastitanium), aluminium (plasmalum), and copper (plasma-brass). The chemistry of these reactions is not well developed, but it is expected that plasma is a complex hydrocarbon with a number of possible isomers, which can be transferred between with a sufficient application of energy. At least one of these isomers adopts a crystalline structure, while another has strong but disordered intermolecular interactions, allowing plasma to adopt solid, liquid and gaseous forms at the same temperature- both a scientific curiosity and marvel.

### Bluespace Crystals
Bluespace Crystals first became known to humanity in 2459, following an event that collectively opened the world's eyes to the material's incredible power. In a near catastrophic event, Zhang's Comet deviated from its expected close flyby of Earth into a direct collision course with Toronto, Canada. As TerraGov scrambled to organise an emergency response, the comet suddenly, and incredibly mysteriously, vanished- and reappeared near the Moon, which it promptly crashed into. Investigating the impact crater, researchers were puzzled to find a massive number of brilliant blue crystals in colossal veins throughout the rock- crystals which, when energised, be it by radiation, or heat, or even something as simple as crushing a crystal in the palm of your hand, would result in short range teleportation. Scientists theorised that the comet was hit by a large burst of radiation from a solar flare, resulting in a large scale translocation of the crystals, and, in turn, the comet.

As testing on the crystals progressed further, researchers discovered that they were no mere mundane material- Bluespace crystals acted as a manifested link to a parallel dimension, which came to be known as the Bluespace. Better technology allowed for the harnessing of this link, leading to the rise of bluespace-based devices and materials. How exactly they link to this parallel dimension is unknown.

Fairly rapidly, it was discovered that bluespace crystals could be synthesised via a combination of plasma with diamond at extreme pressure and heat. This discovery, however, was unable to be utilised to its fullest due to the limited supply of plasma with which humanity could experiment. The newfound abundance of plasma from Indescipheres, however, has been instrumental in kickstarting humanity's Bluespace Age- with Nanotrasen at the centre of it all.

Bluespace technology almost universally focuses on manipulation of space, in ways never before thought possible. Via use of the Bluespace, circuits shrink, massive amounts of storage become possible in handheld packages, and a new form of faster-than-light travel was invented via the Wattson Drive- allowing for incredible FTL travel in a fraction of the time of plasma-based engines. This makes bluespace crystals (and in turn the plasma used for industrial synthesis of them) extremely valuable in almost all areas of science, engineering, and manufacturing.

Current areas of bluespace focus include longer and longer range teleportation, further advancements in FTL, the direct and safe use of Bluespace pocket dimensions (which has shown little promising advancement since the disappearance of Doctor A. Hilbert, the leading scientist in this field), and the creation of Bluespace alloys.

### Supermatter
Supermatter is a novel state of matter, initially found in trace quantities in the gaseous orbit of a neutron star. Scientific analysis has not yet pinpointed exactly *what* supermatter is- however, it is theorised to be formed from extremely dense clusters of ionised gas, which collapses due to extreme forces of pressure into a nominally solid (supermatter is actually better described as an amorphous solid, as it does not possess the rigid structure of a true crystal) and incredibly dense material. Upon contact with materials of standard density, it is capable of ripping them apart, atom by atom, at which point they will be incorporated into the crystal on an atomic level.

Despite the lack of understanding about what Supermatter is, a method of producing viable quantities has been established. Supermatter conglomerate crystals are made via the skimming of these neutron stars to obtain enough material to produce a "seed" crystal. This "seed" is then expanded via the introduction of massive amounts of material in a controlled environment, with particular care given to prevent catastrophic disruption of the lamina, and to avoid making the crystal so dense that it collapses into a singularity. Typically a hypernoble gas environment is used, which keeps the crystal at a safe energy level. Various materials can be used to alter the crystal's properties, though again care must be taken to not spike energy production too high (uranium and plutonium are common materials used to increase energy production) lest the crystal become unsustainably energetic and delaminate.

The crystal maintains stability via the creation of a thin layer of gas which is held by the crystal's gravitational pull. This layer, known as a "lamina", keeps the crystal stable, and also allows for the interaction of gases with the crystal superstructure. The decomposition of these gases via contact results in the release of radiation and arcs of electricity, which has allowed for some experimental power production methods to be set up utilising a large supermatter crystal- working on these prototypes, however, has proven to be a job for the brave or foolhardy. Different gases have different interactions with the crystal.

In the event that the lamina is allowed to completely dissipate, a delamination event will occur. In this event, the crystalline structure of the supermatter will collapse, resulting in a massive release of energy as the supermatter decays to regular matter. In the event that the crystal is sufficiently dense (due to the surrounding atmosphere being too dense, resulting in a catastrophic gain in density for the crystal that overcomes the stabilising effect of the lamina) it may collapse into a singularity. Needless to say, this is not good. High energy delaminations may result in a remarkable release of energy, including the potential for a release of a tesla-ball. Since even a regular delamination can explode with very high intensity, stations outfitted with experimental Supermatter engines contain a causality destabilization field, which can effectively "interrupt" a delaminating crystal for a short period of time. This serves to both dampen the amount of energy released in the following explosion, as well as to allow facility personnel to evacuate far from the crystal before the delamination occurs.

While all common delaminations are known by scientists who study Supermatter, a rumor around a obscure, highly dangerous delamination has been spreading among those researchers working with, outside of (and against) Nanotrasen. The rumor itself can be traced back to the conspiracy of the Kruszewo site incident. The Kruszewo research site was a highly classified space station run by Nanotrasen that, among many other secret research tasks, attempted to find a more cost-efficient method of growing Supermatter crystals. Since Supermatter crystals normally require a lot of gas and grow very slowly, the Kruszewo research group was tasked with finding a way to "stimulate" crystals to grow more matter quickly and efficiently. They tried inducing heavily energetic resonating waves in a Supermatter seed in the presence of hypernoble gas to stimulate the energy within the crystal to transform the gas around the crystal into Supermatter more efficiently. 

However, one day, the site suddenly ceased all communications and the monitoring stations around the Kruszewo site were hit with a strong electromagnetic pulse. A recording station outside the region of the Kruszewo site had a camera aimed at the site's location, and minutes later, through the distorted footage you could see the Kruszewo site exploding in a massive blast, leaving a brilliantly colored dust cloud behind that almost looked like a small supernova, killing everyone on board. While Nanotrasen officials tried to chalk up the incident to an unauthorized activation of the station's self-destruct device by a rogue site manager, leaks of the footage led the public to reject the story, and people started to craft theories of what had actually happened at the Kruszewo site that day.

One theory was particularly compelling among those remaining Supermatter researchers at Nanotrasen who didn't quit out of fear for their own life. It describes how a Supermatter resonance experiment at the Kruszewo site had accidentally triggered a delamination so incredibly energetic that a Supermatter crystal, along with the decay of the lamina, had transitioned into a hyper-energetic state where it could exist without immediately converting back into normal matter. Additionally, it still harbored the resonance during the experiment, and without the lamina shielding Supermatter from normal matter, the crystal began to immediately transform everything touching it into more Supermatter. This led to runaway crystal growth, and within minutes the site itself was consumed by a gigantic mass of Supermatter. Eventually the mass became so dense that the crystalline structure could not support its own gravitational force anymore, which led to the collapse of the crystal. Upon collapsing in on itself, the entire crystal mass immediately converted into normal matter and caused an explosion that was hundreds of times more powerful than the largest explosion created by mankind at that point, more akin to an actual supernova. This theory became colloquially known as the "Resonance Cascade", and it went on to inspire existential dread into all Nanotrasen workers who heard of it.

Shortly after this incident, all stations that worked with research and power crystals were forced to adopt a "resonance filter device", which automatically counter-resonated against any resonance waves present in the crystals. The resonance filter by itself was a very robust preventative measure against anyone accidentally (or intentionally) invoking a resonance cascade, however it was theorized that a high enough concentration of hypernoblium along with its newly discovered counterpart, antinoblium, may cause fluctuations in a crystal that are strong enough to overpower the filter. There's also a rumor that a Department of Opposition agent infiltrated the Kruszewo exclusion zone and discovered remnant crystals of the mass that destroyed the Kruszewo site. These remnant are said to harbor the same resonant energy, and attaching them to normal Supermatter induces enough resonance to start the whole process all over again. 
