# The Bitways
> "Ass on the chair, meatwad. Let's make some unis."
- RAY-ZOR, Bitrunner Extraordinaire (self-titled)

So, let's say you've got some skills with a computer, a bone to pick with some kind of major organisation (or a neat paycheck from one), and a powerful rig hooked up to the 'Face: welcome to the Bitways, meatwad- time to take a deep dive into the wonderful world of bitrunning.

### What is Bitrunning?
To cut a very long and very dry story short- bitrunning is pretty much modern day hacking. The security's got tighter, but so have hackers' skills- and the technology available is leagues above the monochrome screens and clicky keyboards of the early scriptkiddy- now, most hacking at this calibre is done via dedicated interfaces (known as the 'Face) with the net. To the computer engineer reading, this is the internet- to the hackers, it's the bitways; an endless series of pipes and tubes, except some of them lead to cool shit- and they've got the interface necessary to cruise them in a more hands-on way. They might see an encrypted server as a mighty fortress, ready to be breached and the sweet spoils inside pillaged. They might use the 'Face to take some downtime, hitting a virtual hangout spot with some likeminded individuals and shooting the shit. Perhaps they'll find themselves in a pitched battle with an opponent, as they lob daemons and hacks at one another to drop their connections... or worse.

Of course, this kind of talent rarely goes unnoticed, and so a new war wages behind the virtual walls of the net- between bitrunners, and the security forces trying to keep them out. The biggest of these is TerraGov's own Federal Communications Enforcement Agency, or FedComm- a collective of cyber cops, equipped with much the same tech as the runners, trying to track them down and neutralise them for arrest- or, if it's someone outside Federal jurisdiction, maybe just neutralise them permanently. Corporations have also jumped on the bandwagon, although they like to play both sides- encorporating both a defensive and offensive bitrunning department, ready to push their way into their opponents' secrets all while repelling any attempts on their own. This game of cat and mouse, naturally, tends to be very lucrative for the guys who actually have their asses in the chairs- but they can also never be sure that the next run won't be the one where they find out what a brainwipe feels like.