# The Tiziran Government

### Monarchy: 
The reigning monarch of Tizira is the young Empress Arael-Rena I, notable for being the youngest crowned monarch in Tizira's unified history, having taken the throne at 17 after the sudden death of her father. Now 24, she is known for her idealism and belief in change.

The Empress is well known for her close cooperation with her twin brother Shal-Rena.

The Empress' early life was defined by rebellion. As a child, she had little interest in preparing to take the throne, instead preferring to spend her time away from the nobility and the royal lifestyle. Into her teenage years, this tranformed into sneaking out to spend nights with the commonfolk, giving her a unique perspective amongst the royal family into the life of an average Tiziran- as well as a disliking of the status quo of Tizira. After ascending to the throne, she began to push against the military establishment, using her now concerningly (to the powers-that-be) loud voice to advocate for increased galactic cooperation and an end to Tizira's jingoism. This, perhaps obviously, did not earn her many supporters amongst the higher eschelons of Tiziran political life and the military, who see her as a naive upstart that threatens their grip on power. However, it has made her a very popular figure amongst Tizira's war-weary and increasingly discontent population.

The Empress' push against the parliament has lead them to throw their support behind another figure in the Tiziran monarchy: the Empress' uncle, Geri-Rena, an accomplished military leader and firm supporter of the status quo. Geri has long held designs on the Tiziran throne, having envied his brother for being first in line, and now viewing his offspring as squandering it. This has lead to the rise of a movement amongst the Tiziran elite and more jingoistic population, the Black Birthright- seeking the removal of Arael and her replacement with Geri. The movement is small but powerful, being supported by a number of Tizira's more prominent nobility, old-money businesses, and most notably, a majority of the upper levels of the military.