# The Lizards

### A Basic Rundown
Lizardpeople originally hail from Tizira, in the Rizkalon system, though throughout their four centuries in the stars prior to meeting humanity they have spread over several planets and systems. This outward expansion was hindered by a lack of plasma and bluespace resources in their local sector, stunting their technological advancement and therefore their development (and rollout) of effective FTL engines, with many vessels within the navy not having been fitted with them prior to First Contact. Their technological level remains generaly below that of their human rivals, aggravated by a limited transfer of ideas between the two species, and, most of all, lack of resources. 

Where capable, however, especially during the wars, lizards have shown great technological ambition and potential, notably achieving great fits in spaceship construction, prompted by insufferable losses recieved due to its neglect prior to contact with humans. Azik Intersellar methaphotically skyrocketing in market value alongside more literal premiere launches of their prototypes. In many ways, lizard designs are more thrifty and ingenious than human counterparts, which is very visible with resource-expensive products such as starships. Though leaning into such, forced by scarcity of resources, slows down the progress on effectiveness of the product, which is more visible in areas such as shielding and weaponry, and ultimately costed lizards the war, leading to heavy damage of one of the moons above their homeworld.

Tizira is notably more arid than Earth, with small, shallow seas and less arable land. In addition, the planet has a diminished ozone layer, leading to higher-than-average levels of solar radiation reaching the planet's surface. As cold blooded creatures, the lizards thrive in this environment, with major cities being built close to the coastlines and smaller settlements spread across the wide drylands and deserts.

Lizard society emphasises strict militarism and a rigid caste system. The caste system limits social mobility, separating society into distinct bands- however, as with many things in lizard society, enlistment in the military can change this. The military is intertwined deeply into lizard culture- all must serve a tour of mandatory service in the army after coming of age, it is customary for every citizen to be armed (typically with a blade, but into the modern era firearms have become commonplace), and the sight of a soldier on every street corner is not only typical but expected. Advancing in the military heirarchy is one of the few ways a low caste lizard might hope to raise his social standing.

As one travels further from the core systems however this culture softens. A century and a half of contact with humanity and a limited projection of power from Tizira has made lizards on the frontier of the empire much more humanlike in their mannerisms. There are many lizards alive today who have never lived within the borders of the empire, and care little for its customs.

Biologically, lizardfolk are not very dissimiliar to now mostly extinct, earth-born and non-sentient reptiles, based on which they were named by human explorers. Most apparent shared features include cold blood, scales covering the skin, claws, and extruded jaw allowing them to easier dig in into food where upon they pre-emptively digest it more thoroughly. In most natural state, their legs are digitigrade, specialized for running after prey on open fields in the wastes and stabilized by a tail when it comes to walking or standing in place. Their scale colours range through different saturations of green, presumably to stand more clashing with the desert and appear more dangerous. 

However, they are also one of the most mutable species in the galaxy. Human xenologists counted several 'genotypes', often natively refferenced as 'bloodlines'. Even on their home planet one can be met with unquantifiable varieties of horns and body markings, mostly present in noble families, which are entirely superficial beyond aesthetic standpoint. Similiarly, though more commonly off homeworld, there's an emergence of aesthetic spinal protrusions and unnatural vivid colorations. Most extreme cases of this rapid diversification can be found in lizards of the Zeriobasssa, an aquatic world with 99% of its surface covered with water, and an enclave for lizards of former islander nation of Zeriob. Though it was one of the first interstellar colonies of Tizirian empire, partially made to push out zeriobians, it is noted that they had since specialized remarkably fast, growing features such as fins, anglerfish-reminescent petrusions which are bioluminescents underwater, and even, combined with some genetic tampering, gills.

The genetic flexibility of lizards grants them, as a species, huge advantage in the field genetics and bio-engineering, which they greatly exploit as one of main pillars of their technology. Soldiers and menial labourers often opt for strength enhancements, technicians can get ahold of gene modifications which make them attune to radio-waves around them or easier to mesh with cybernetics, and on common consumer level, limited alteration of child's physical traits while they are still developing inside an egg and gene-alterations in order to mitigate some of birth defects had long been normalized. Those who choose to live their life among the stars, and perhaps among alien species such as humans or moths, might save up money for extensive surgery supported by gene therapy involving breaking their legs bone structure to remodel then as plantigrade; and thanks to the gene therapy, results of such surgery will carry over to next generations!

Particularly rich lizards use genetic therapy to alter themselves towards fictional figures of Tizirian mythology, most often, and most easily, the Silverscales, 'enforcers of the gods'. Given their role of hiding among common lizards, barely any alterations are needed bar high-quality general purpose ones, a rich lizard is already nearly bound to have. There is however one rather specific and costly characteristic of Silverscales; their capability to turn into statues of silver "so that they might be preserved onto the next generation, watch, and arbiter accordingly". Though only maufactured by one company, using extremely rare ingridients, a gene therapy giving such capability exists, at nearly absurd price. To avoid tampering with the brain, which was put under heavy regulations, the process is activated by a specific flicker of the tounge which is also used to reverse it; tounges of such modified lizards becoming then their most prized possessions, and reminders of a money debt for years to come.

### Fun Factoids:
* The moon of Tizira was famously bombed by the TerraGov Expeditionary Corps during one of lizardkind's many conflicts with humanity, creating a noticable "scar" across the surface which can be seen from the planet. The Planet Cracker drink is named for this event. Lizards, especially ones following sitalesse are very displeased by this, given the moon's cultural significance and portreyal as a warrior god. Imperial nationalists claim it was due to humanity's "unfair" naval supremacy, which is why they began more heavily pushing on their own spaceship construction in following years.
* The Imperial Lizard Army is famous for their melee skirmishers, who utilise throwing weapons and short-ranged firearms to great effect alongside razor-sharp blades. Despite their embarassing defeat by humanity, they're still well respected within lizard society.
* The Draconic spoken by lizard crewmembers is a Spacer form of the language, created by decades of isolation from Tizira. Lizards from the core systems speak a distinct form of Draconic, known as "High Draconic" or "The Emperor's Draconic".
* With the newfound (and uneasy) peace between humans and lizards, some degree of cooperation between the species has blossomed. Tizira lends an expeditionary force to the human-led Anti-Xenomorph Coalition. Much of this cooperation is pushed by the present ruler of Tizira: the young Empress Arael-Daesa I, who has used her limited power to pursue a more pro-human foreign policy than her predecessors in bold opposition to the parliament- much to the chagrin of both the military old guard and a significant portion of her people.
* Plantigrade lizard are often discriminated in wider lizard society for beign "too human-like".
* Pronouncing X as "ecks" is badass.

### Tizira: The Jewel of the Empire
While the Lizard Empire has come to encompass many planets over the course of its existence, none have been able to attain the level of beauty that is attributed to the capital, Tizira (Life-Mother). A rugged, arid planet, Tizira has small, shallow seas, and limited farmland, with most of the planet's surface being covered in vast badlands and savannahs, as well as deserts and small mountain ranges. In the more humid areas near the oceans, particularly around the equator, rainforests and tropical jungles thrive, acting as a home to an incredible range of biodiversity, as well as being the native homeland of the Tree Lizards. Additionally, in the northernmost and southernmost regions of the planet, temperate forests exist, as well as marshlands and rolling green hills. At the poles, a small band of tundra exists, before the polar ice caps. These areas are sparsely habited, as they are far from the natural habitat of the lizards.

Abundant natural resources include high-quality iron, silver, coal, salt, and hydrocarbons suitable for use as spacecraft fuel, resulting in the capital having a thriving material economy. In addition, the planet is host to most lizard corporations and companies, and has become a large tourist destination for lizards and non-lizards alike. However, many visitors find the atmosphere on the planet oppressive once they arrive- owing to the large military presence and generally stuffiness of the local populace when compared with the more open colonies.

Tizira possesses three moons. The largest of its moons, Atrakor ("Night Sky Lord" in High Draconic) was famously bombarded by the TerraGov Expeditionary Corps during one of lizardkind's many wars with humanity, giving the Lord his distinctive scar. Colonies exist on all three moons, harvesting valuable minerals to sustain the lizard economy. A number of orbital habitats exist too, though their quality is dubious and critics of the government accuse them of using them as offworld slums to house the poor and destitute out of sight and out of mind.

Tourist Information:
* The capital of Tizira is the city of Zagoskeld, translating to "Great Sea's Edge" from High Draconic. Its metropolitan area is home to around 1/16th of the planet's population. The city is home to the Imperial Family, whose palace overlooks the bay and is a popular tourist destination in the city. It's located on the Zagosk, or Great Sea, and as expected is also a major port city for intraplanetary trade.
* Tizira is home to around 10 billion lizardpeople, making it the Empire's most populous planet. A further 500 million live in orbital habitats and in colonies on its three moons.
* The urban density is highest around the oceans, with settlements further from water being smaller and less densely populated. Rural areas have survived the advancement to the space age, unlike on Earth.
* The many wars of lizardkind have resulted in much of the ancient architecture of the planet being lost or ruined. The few remaining well preserved sites are now strictly guarded as cultural heritage sites. Zagoskeld's old city is one of the best preserved areas of Medieval Lizard architecture, and the Imperial Palace is a key example of this style.
* While High Draconic is the official language of the Lizard Empire, officially around 2500 languages are recognised as still living by Lizard scholars. Strong cultural divides still cause issues for the central government, even centuries after unification.
