# Sitalesse: The Worship of the Heavens
> "Praise be to Atrakor, our most divine protector and lord of the heavens. May you grant my ancestors peace and rest, and grant me strength to carry on in their name..."
- A typical prayer to Atrakor

The largest religion on Tizira, Sitalesse (Draconic, Sky Worship) is a polytheistic faith revolving around the worship of celestial bodies, subdivided into a number of subfaiths that place importance on specific deities. Having originally been born of the regions surrounding the Minosk, the religion was carried further afield by Classical-age imperial conquests, and then further again by colonialism. At the religion's peak in the Industrial Age, around 50% of the population of Tizira followed some form of Sitalesse. By the time of the settlement of Sulya, this number had dropped to about 30-35%. Now, following centuries of space travel, the rise and fall of Lacertism, and a general shift from devout religious practice, the religion is followed by only around 25% of the planet's population, and less so in the colonies.

The principal subfaiths of Sitalesse are those that follow Atrakor, Tizira, Rizkalon, Sulya, Viomea and the Twin Moons Pelara and Iskil.

### Atrakor: The Warrior and Guardian
Within the Sitalesse Pantheon, Atrakor, the Night Sky Lord, represents military might, chivalry, honour, duty, and acts as the guardian of the souls of the dead. This commanding position, particularly with the emphasis on militarism within Tiziran society, places the Moon Father and his cult as the primary deity of the Sitalesse pantheon in Tiziran culture, despite his position within the pantheon not being at its head.

The importance of Atrakor has resulted in moon iconography being common within Tiziran culture. The Empire's flag, as an example, displays Atrakor in full illumination, typically associated with military might. This same icon appears on the royal coat of arms, with Atrakor being considered the patron deity of the royal family. Other phases carry other meanings- Atrakor's New Moon, for example, is associated with the dead and revering their eternal souls, and is considered the Holy Day (or night, as the case may be) of the Moon God, being an important prayer day and marking the end of a Tiziran week. To this end, the emblem of the New Moon is often found on ossuaries, and adorning the walls of burial catacombs across the empire.

Temples dedicated to Atrakor are common across the Empire, particularly around the Old World side of the Zagosk where Atrakor worship was most prevalent (and that would go on to be the heartland of the Tiziran Empire). Some of the most impressive include the Imperial House of the Moon in Zagoskeld and the extensive temple complex of the Halls of Atrakor in the foothills of the Adeni Mountains near Taraveiro.

### Tizira: The Earth Mother
Tizira, the Earth Mother, is regarded as the spiritual creator of lizardkind, forming an integral part of the Sitalesse creation myth. She is said to have been created by Rizkalon and the unknown King of the Cosmos to serve as lizardkind's mother and home, serving her children through her bountious gifts. She subsequently went on to birth the first lizards, and then entered an eternal slumber, content knowing that she would provide for her children through the ages. This important role has made her a common icon of worship across the Old World, with temples to her glory being present in almost every major settlement, even if her cult is considered smaller than that of Atrakor's.

### Sulya: The Mother of Hearth, Home, Harvest, Athletes and Competition
One of the lesser deities of the pantheon (but no less worshipped), Sulya holds domain over a wide variety of facets. Of these, she is most associated with hearth and home, being the goddess of domiciles, warmth, and family. This makes her an important icon for home shrines, maternity wards, nurseries, and other similar places. Additionally, her domain over the harvest makes her a key goddess in the rural regions of Tizira where farming is a key source of income- indeed, it is these areas that hold most of her primary temples and monasteries.

She also holds domain over a very different facet: competitions. Here, she serves as the patron goddess of athletes, for theological reasons lost to time. For this reason, her iconography of the White Coastflower and the Korta Nut is commonly used in sports, including being the symbol for the Sulyanic Games- a global event similar to the human Olympics.

#### Fun Facts:
* The most famous depiction of Sulya is in the painting "Sulya Anoints Her Champion", a piece depicting her pouring water over an armoured figure. The piece created controversy at the time of its creation due to its immodest depiction of the goddess, but has since become a landmark piece in Valyngian culture, representing a key step forward in the Valyngian renaissance.

### Viomea: War, Victory, and Metal
Viomea's domain over war, victory and metal has netted her a prime pantheonic position amongst the war-hungry Tizirans. As the patron goddess of soldiers, her icon (the Bloodrose) is used commonly across the armed forces, often alongside Atrakor's full illumination.

### Pelara and Iskil: The Trickster Twins
The cults of Pelara and Iskil are both quite small in comparison to the more major gods, mostly due to their limited and niche domains- Pelara is the Goddess of Peace and Diplomacy, and Iskil is the Goddess of Malevolence and Anger.

# Sumalism: Secular Ideology of Supremacy
Following Tiziran unification and the advent of their space empire, a new wave of thought began to sweep across the land, started by the political firebrand (and later Prime Minister) Ana-Sumal. Sumalism, as it became known, preached a secular doctrine- that there were no gods, nor any grand reason to be, besides those that the Tizirans made for themselves. That the purpose of the Tiziran people was to unite and to go forth, to manifest their destiny across the great beyond. This nationalistic belief structure became popular amongst the military and political thinkers of the day, and in particular was taken up strongly by Parliamentarians. In addition, it began to supplant traditional religious beliefs amongst the populace.

As Sumalism rose, it would become foundational to the politics of the early Tiziran empire, leading to a strong military buildup, the advent of widespread conscription and national service, the expansion of the military bureaucracy to other civic positions, and importantly, to a rapid and efficient expansion of the empire's borders. In essence, the state became subservient to the military. This came with a cost, however- the rapid expansion and jingoism would draw the attention of their galactic neighbours, and under the circumstances, war was inevitable sooner or later- and many were fought, both successful and inconclusive, but generally the Tiziran military performed very well. This, however, would end with the arrival of a new face on the scene- the technologically-advanced humans.

And it was in the wars with humanity that the failings of Sumalism would be revealed. The ideology is, by its nature, supremacist and war-hungry. This leaves it inflexible and incapable of working when war ceases to be a viable option. In the case of the human-lizard wars, the majority were fought with the Tizirans as the aggressors- seeking to expand influence and cut down their neighbours to size. With each defeat, there was a failure to learn- instead, revanchism was used to fuel additional support for Sumalist thought and further war, at the expense of more and more lives each time. The primary reason that a relative era of peace has been reached today is that internal conflicts, fuelled by the repeated failings of Sumalism to deliver Tizira its manifest destiny and by the increasing economic and social debt created by war, have become destabilising enough that external war is no longer sustainable.

Sumalism remains the dominant ideology amongst the political elite on Tizira. The average populace is largely moving away from it, instead being more in favour of diplomatic solutions, but without a strong push from the top, the parliament seems likely to remain stacked with Sumalist thinkers. However, in recent years, a beacon of hope for the war-weary and pro-diplomatic populace has emerged- the Empress, seeing the writing on the wall, has made important strides with her limited constitutional power against the ideological slump, seeking a more diplomatic foreign policy and throwing support behind the foundation of a galactic community. These ideas are, of course, not held purely out of a naive belief in cooperation, but a pragmatic look at the situation of the empire: if drastic action to cool the heels of Tiziran nationalism and the war-hawkishness of the military is not taken, then the Empire faces collapse, as the population turns further and further against the political elite- including, critically, the Imperial family, unless they are able to make it clear that they are on the side of the people.

However, this has not gone unchallenged by the Parliament. In many ways, the political landscape on Tizira is becoming polarised, with pro-parliament and Sumalist thinkers seeking to reduce the Empress' power and prevent what they view as an undermining of Tiziran power (and importantly, of parliament's power), and pro-monarchy and pro-galactic thinkers pushing for a downsizing of the military machine and an end to the Sumalist dominance of politics on Tizira. The stage seems set for a cold war between crown and country, and perhaps even for a true civil war as the two sides continue to undermine each other.
