# Mars: Fuelling Humanity
> "The day of Martian destiny is here, all children of the Red Planet! For liberty, for equality, for Mars!"

For as long as Man has looked at the night sky, he has had a dream; of dominion over more than the land beneath his feet, to pierce the heavens and find new soil to tread. And no jewel of the stars was as tempting as Mars; Earth's closest companion in the void, glimpsed through telescopes and grainy photography for centuries before the first human foot landed on its sandy surface. But as space became the new frontier and thousands took to the void in search of new homes, Mars fell to the wayside; its dusty surface simply being incompatible with any real degree of comfortable living. And yet, that romance that drew the imagination of humans for millenia never faded; companies continued attempts to prospect on Mars, chief amongst them Cybersun Industries, and as terraforming techniques matured, it became clear that Mars was a viable candidate as a testbed for terraforming at a full planetary scale.

Throughout the centuries, Mars was made habitable. It's still quite dusty, and it gets pretty cold at times, but there's oxygen in the air, trees in the cities, and that inhospitable nature that prevented humanity from settling the Red Planet is gone. Which is lucky, because it's also absolutely loaded with mineral wealth, tucked far beneath the surface.

Mars' main source of wealth is its plasma mines, which serve as humanity's primary source of the valuable material. Other minerals important for modern manufacturing are also in relative abundance, which helps to fuel both Mars' own forges and factories, as well as those of other major industrial sites in the Central Core systems. Financial services also make up a large portion of the Martian economy, mostly centred in New Osaka. Tourism was once an important source of revenue, but has fallen as the general romance of the Red Planet has faded and more people venture further afield, in search of nice beaches and exotic locales instead of endless dusty red dunes.

# A Short History of Mars
### Martian Pioneering
The initial wave of settlement on Mars came in the form of corporate staking, with a number of corporations making landfall and setting up sealed colonies on the surface to take advantage of the planet's mineral wealth. Chief amongst these corporate pioneers was Cybersun Industries, who set up a network of colonies across the planet's flatter northern regions, particularly in the Amenthes, Elysium and Arabia quadrangles. These early days on Mars were characterised by hard living, which created a hardy pioneering spirit amongst the miners that came to live on the planet. As greater finds were made under Mars' surface, the population slowly but steadily increased, although with more habitable planets being discovered in Alpha Centauri and beyond, Mars was not many colonists' first choice for where to go.

Many of the colonies settled during this period went on to become Mars' largest cities, including New Osaka (Oda), Shu-Kouba (Suwa), Mikage (Asakura) and (Yamana).

### Terraforming
Mars would remain as an industrial outpost until the advent of terraforming technology. Initially used only on a constrained basis on certain worlds, as the technology matured and developed, it became clear that terraforming a full planet was not only possible, but entirely feasible. Many candidates were explored to become humanity's first terraformed world, but none stood out more than Mars, which had captured the imagination of humanity for millenia and was an important industrial world in its own right. Initial steps included adding water from ice mined from asteroids, the seeding of an artificial atmosphere, and the establishment of a series of forests to act as the planet's "lungs" and sustain the atmosphere. Later, temperature control measures and magnetosphere alterations were put in place. This trial of terraforming on Mars was not only a success, but a stunning one, with a far shorter timeframe than originally anticipated. The lessons learned from this endeavour would go on to inform humanity's geoengineering efforts on numerous other worlds.

In the wake of the terraforming, Mars underwent a significant boom period which has come to be known as the Plasma Century, with incredible profits generated by resource extraction coupled with mass immigration to Mars' burgeoning cities spurred by this prosperity.

### Fires of Rebellion
With this explosive growth, however, came new challenges. Mars was previously held as essentially a colonial possession under a patchwork of corporate ownership. With the growth in population and general shift away from purely economic exploitation, TerraGov took an interest in uniting the colony and bringing it under federal supervision as a new Federal Territory of Mars, as had already been done with colonies such as Adasta or Astarte. Despite corporate pushback, TerraGov was soon able to achieve this goal (although it required paying large indemnities to the affected corporations), finally admitting Mars as an official territory, and assigning it a number of seats in the Senate based upon its population.

Shortly afterwards, however, this senatorial representation would prove to be a sticking point for Mars. With a rapidly growing population, the number of senate positions quickly became too few to adequately represent the state; Martians began to feel as though they were being dictated to by Earth, with no real ability to exert a voice within the political institutions of the Federation. As their dissatisfaction fell on deaf ears at the senate, it would eventually grow into a revolutionary fervor, with key Martian figures becoming increasingly vocal about how Mars needed better; perhaps it would be better off without TerraGov, to be its own nation. Heavy-handed crackdowns by the Federal authorities did little to help this sentiment, and before long, Mars was in open rebellion against Terran rule.

The first spark of revolution came in 2270, when a protest at the Governor General's office in New Osaka became a riot. The Martian-born troops dispatched to restore order turned against their Terran officers, and joined the rioters in storming the Governor's office and capturing him. This spark grew into a flame across New Osaka, with fighting erupting in the streets, and a schism forming in the military on Mars between those loyal to the Federation and those loyal to their planet. In the coming days, a Provisional Government was set up, declaring a new Martian Republic, free from TerraGov and their tyranny.

This would bring an end to the Plasma Century and lead to the bloody days of the Martian Rebellion, which lasted 8 long years and saw extensive fighting across the Martian landscape. In the end, Mars' fierce resistance was able to bring TerraGov to the negotiating table, wherein a new series of laws regarding the colonies was drafted, granting more proportional representation based on population and the tools for reallocation of senatorial seats in response to large population shifts. The war-weary Martians accepted the deal, rejoining the Terran Federation as the Free State of Mars.

### Mars Today
Since the Concession, Mars has returned to its position as an industrial powerhouse within the Federation. It remains the largest single source of plasma for the nation, totalling about 25% of all plasma produced.

# Martian Places
## New Osaka: the Red City
The shining capital of Mars, New Osaka has a storied history that acts as a microcosm of the planet as a whole. Originally settled by Cybersun Industries as one of several colonial ventures during the plasma boom, New Osaka (or Oda Colony, as it was known then) has been around longer than Mars' atmosphere. Following the terraforming, New Osaka became a nexus for colonisation on the Red Planet, experiencing a blistering rate of growth as part of Mars' Plasma Century. During the revolution, New Osaka became the focal point of the conflict and the seat of government of the Provisional Martian Republic, as well as experiencing heavy damage during the war due to orbital bombardment and pitched fighting in the streets. After Martian statehood, the Governor General took up office there, and made the city the official administrative capital of the State of Mars. Stories are etched in its red stone walls; indeliable tales of hardworking miners, freedom fighters, hardy pioneers, and the cultural patchwork that makes New Osaka the city it is today.

### Multicultural Mars
While all of Mars is quite cosmopolitan (especially in comparison to the rest of the Core Systems), there's nowhere on the Red Planet with a greater mix of cultures than New Osaka. From its roots as a colonial stake of a Japanese company, to later waves of migrant workers from across East Asia, and further mass migration in the wake of the terraforming, New Osaka is a true melting pot. This can be seen in the languages spoken: while the Japanese-based Martian Creole is an obvious standout, it's not uncommon to hear basically any human language while walking down the street, and even occasional bursts of Mothic or Draconic in certain areas.

### Dust in the Air
Visitors to the Red City should be aware that the name isn't just a cutesy nickname given because of the red stone used for many buildings; it also refers to the Martian dust that hangs in the air. Depending on weather patterns, New Osakans can go entire weeks without seeing an end to the dust storms. On days like these, they turn to dust masks and heavy clothes, or make use of the city's extensive network of underground passageways (some of which date back to the original, pre-terraforming colony) to minimise their time spent on the surface. After all, as they say in New Osaka, "life must go on".

### Life Underground
With its history as a pre-terraforming colony, large parts of the original structure of New Osaka were built underground, directly into the Martian rock. This network of tunnels beneath the Martian surface has been incorporated into the city and expanded as the years have gone on, forming essentially a second half to the city located only a few dozen feet under the streets, creating a welcome respite from the dust topside. The tunnels aren't only used for transportation, however: homes and businesses are also built into this network, making this underground network as lively as the streets above.

### Martian Museum
Anyone interested in Mars' colonial past should make an effort to visit the Martian Museum, in Otacho Ward. Located at the site of the original Oda Colony's first landing site, the museum incorporates parts of the original structure that survived the rebellion into its design; offering a unique view of how the first colonists on Mars lived their lives in its sealed walls. Additionally, visitors can enjoy learning about the history of plasma and its use in science and engineering; about the Martian rebellion, the Concession, and Mars' storied history with Earth; about the history of colonial settlement in the Sol System and beyond; and countless exhibits beyond.

### Concession Park
Once part of the Old City of New Osaka, the area that makes up Concession Park was essentially fully destroyed during the Rebellion, when New Osaka was bombarded by the Terran Navy. Following the Concession, the space was set aside for a large park to act as a centrepoint for the city, and to begin to heal the wounds that had grown between Earth and Mars. Dug into the Martian soil, Concession Park sits a full 40 feet below street level, open to the sky and built to deflect the Martian dust. Inside are a number of attractions for visitors: a traditional Japanese garden complete with shrine; the New Osaka Zoo; the Olympiad Athletics Centre; and the Concession Botanical Gardens, home to hundreds of rare species of plants from across the galaxy.

### Jinja Ward
For the fashion-minded tourist, Jinja Ward is the perfect destination. Home to both trendy newcomers to the fashion world as well as Old-Earth luxury brands, there are options for any price range and any style. However, trendy clothes aren't the only thing Jinja is setting trends in: you'll also find cafes, bars and restaurants that are all breaking the mould and pioneering new worlds of flavour, and a vibrant art scene famous throughout the galaxy.

### University of Mars, New Osaka Campus
Having recently celebrated its 250th year of continued operation, the University of Mars is the foremost of Mars' institutes of higher eductation, with their New Osaka campus being prominently located just outside of Downtown, in Chokei Ward. As a university, UoM is well known for its STEM credentials, particularly in engineering and finance, although it also gets a good name for maths, pharmacy and physics.

### Cybersun Park
The destination of choice for any baseball fan, Cybersun Park is home to the New Osaka Woodpeckers, top ranked team in the FBL for 10 years running. Of course, Cybersun Park has more to offer than just baseball; the incorporated mall is also a major shopping destination, and the ballgame food on offer in the stands is legendary across the Core Systems: including the oft-imitated, never equalled Plasma Dog Supreme: a grilled hot-dog topped off with sambal, dashi-grilled onions, and pineapple-lime salsa, it's the king of game day food, and is the only menu item from the snack stands to not be available year round at the mall food court; you gotta come for a game to get your hands on one.


## Prospect: the City of Food
> "Over here, over here, two fresh ti-hoeh-koé, only 4 dollars! Great deal, you won't find cheaper or better anywhere else in Prospect!"

Amongst the various cities of Mars, Prospect was a relative latecomer, having been founded after the terraforming of Mars had already been completed. What it lacks in history, however, it makes up for in spirit. Prospect has become a nexus for Mars' burgeoning culinary culture, with its night markets and hole-in-the-wall eateries setting the standard for which foods will be the next trends on Mars (and beyond).

### Arabia Street Night Market
The most famous of Prospect's night markets, the Arabia Street market is the premier destination for the foodie seeking the best and brightest of Mars' street chefs, as well as great deals on everything from electronics to clothing. Famous dishes straight out of Arabia Street include peanut butter ice cream mochi, Huoxing tofu, and hurricane fried rice. When the sun rises and the stalls pack up, the various cafes around the market open up, offering an unbroken culinary experience, and offering visitors the chance to try the famous Prospect Sunrise sandwich.

### Prospect Spaceport
While New Osaka's spaceport might be the biggest on Mars, Prospect's is widely considered to be far, far better. For the visitor willing to take the Shinkansen to their final destination, Prospect spaceport offers Mars' most luxurious welcome, with all the amenities a traveller could need and shopping to rival the best malls of Old Earth.

### The San Ta
Dominating the Prospect skyline, the San Ta, or Triple Towers, are a series of three separate skyscrapers in the Business Ward that stand head-and-shoulders above the rest: the Bank of Mars tower, the New Interdyne building, and the Tiantang Business Centre. They stand so tall, that on a dusty day, they stand above the clouds and offer a free view as far as New Osaka.


## Shu-Kouba: the Dusty City
> "Now you think you've been around the block, you're a Martian, of course you've seen dust- well, until you visit Shu-Kouba, you haven't seen what a real duststorm looks like."

Another of Mars' oldest cities, Shu-Kouba is one of Mars' foremost industrial centres, with its foundries processing thousands of tonnes of minerals from across the Red Planet. However, forges and factories aren't the only things that Shu-Kouba has to offer; it's also grown an incredible alternative culture, with an underground music and art scene that's put it on the map for punks everywhere.

### The DUSTY City
While there's nowhere on Mars that's truly free from Martian dust, there are few places where dust is as omnipresent and culture-defining as in Shu-Kouba. Due to a combination of geographic location and weather patterns introduced by terraforming, it's easier to count the number of days in a year where dust isn't hanging heavy in the air here. As a result, no city on Mars has adopted the underground lifestyle as heavily as Shu-Kouba has, with extensive underground construction. Above-ground, covered streets permit relatively normal living even when the duststorms are at their thickest.

### Cybersun's Third Home
Although Osaka might be its birthplace, and Hong Kong may be its adoptive home, Shu-Kouba is easily Cybersun's most important holding off of Earth itself; with its key positioning close by to many of Ichikawa-Exagon's most important plasma mines, and hosting a large number of corporate-owned forges and foundries, Shu-Kouba is the beating heart of Cybersun's industrial empire, even if they no longer own it on paper.

### Cheers!
Shu-Kouba is well known across the galaxy as Mars' premier brewing and distilling city. Amongst its many products, a few standouts include Ebisu and Moonlabor's ricebeers, a number of prestige sakes, and the city's namesake, Shu-Kouba-style shochu. As might be expected given this industry and the city's underground bar scene, Shu-Kouba is also very well known for its cocktails.