# The Mystery of the Khranitel Revolyutsii
> "To all true Soviets: this is Admiral Sokolov, of the Khranitel Revolyutsii. The rebels have captured New Moscow. But do not despair, for our union is not snuffed out so easily! We shall return!"
- Final broadcast of the Khranitel Revolyutsii

During the February Revolution and the fall of the Third Soviet Union, the anger and discontent with the Union's government was not constrained to the civilian populace of the Spinward Sector. Rifts formed in the armed forces, too, and these tensions would brew to a head as the central government collapsed. The pro-red side would ultimately find themselves on the losing side, and this would force them to make a choice. Many crews stood down, accepting an offer of clemency from the newly-founded SSC. Many others simply vanished, with the ships being scuttled and left to rot in deep space as their crewmembers made new lives elsewhere. But a few decided to continue the fight. Amongst these numbers was the flagship of the Union, the PWS Khranitel Revolyutsii (Guardian of the Revolution), a grand and modern warship (for the time) crewed with over 500 diehard loyalists to the Soviet State.

And so, the Khranitel Revolyutsii would go on to become a figure of legend. As of yet, it has not revealed itself in the Spinward Sector, despite extensive efforts to locate it by the SSC. How exactly a ship of 500 managed to slip into the void so effectively is a subject of fierce debate, and it's made the ship take on a mythical quality. Some say the vessel will reappear when the fires of communism most need relit. Some say the crew are kept alive by the strength of their conviction and loyalty. Some say that the vessel is simply lost, and that somewhere out there, the wreck of the Third Soviet Union's flagship is there for the taking.

All that can be said for certain is that it's not shown its face yet.