## Far Rim
The Far Rim is the furthest region of human-inhabited space, taken up by three main sectors: the Spinward Sector (which is detailed in its own document), the Frontier Sector, and the Imperial March Sector. Of these, the first two are in direct human control, making up the extents of humanity's spinward expansion and giving way to lizard space. The third, the Imperial March, is a special case, however. The systems making up this sector are, under the terms of the Treaty of Atrakor, considered a demilitarised zone under the control of humanity. Neither human nor lizard military vessels are permitted access to this region, and this has created an issue of enforcement in the area for laws. As such, crime has been allowed to ferment here, with pirates picking at the valuable trade links between Humanity and Lizardkind. Talks to reopen the area to anti-piracy enforcement have been slow, with the lizards being hesitant to allow human vessels access to the vital region for fear of creating a springboard for a future invasion.

### Val Corrin: Libertalia of the Starry Skies

#### Fact Sheet:
* Val Corrin has no official capital. The largest settlement is Tabletop, located on top of the Great Green Table, a vast tepui close to the coast. Described as a new Tortuga, Tabletop is a small yet bustling city that's as full of (illicit) opportunity as it is rife with danger.
* Val Corrin is outwith of any official government's space. No gods, no masters. Well, except the Black Flag Council: the closest thing the planet has to a central authority, made up of representatives of several pirate organisations operating in the area. While their power is limited in preventative policing, they *are* quite capable of punishing rule-breaks after the fact. Mostly via violence. In fact, exclusively via violence.
* The native population of the planet, the Etarin, keep to themselves. Very occasionally one will wander to an offworlder settlement to trade for supplies, adorned with a concealing cloak. Nobody knows what they look like beneath the cloth.

Also known as the Smuggler's Moon, Val Corrin lies in the Exodus System: at the meeting point of TerraGov and Tiziran space, and simultaneously in neither. Its lush jungles, wide crystal clear oceans, impressive tepuis and cenotes, and pure white beaches are reminiscent of the islands of the Caribbean- under better circumstances, it may find itself as a resort world. However, it has attracted a different clientele, with less-than-ideal intents.

As a haven for criminals of all creeds and colours, Val Corrin is maintained as a neutral territory by its Articles of Agreement: a list of rules enforced by the Black Flag Council, who also act as an intermediary for government on the planet. Of course, governing those who do not wish to be governed is a difficult task, and the planet remains dangerous for those unable or unwilling to get their hands dirty in defending themselves. Should you find yourself on the Smuggler's Moon, keep a weapon close at hand, and never let your guard fully down.

If you're willing to put up with that, you can find almost anything on Val Corrin. Its position at the crossroads of empires gives it many routes to products, from illicit drugs, to more mundane items being sold without tariffs. The stock available is variable, and highly dependant on who you know; the black market consortiums won't sell their best to just anyone, so it helps to have a reputation amongst the criminal elements of the galaxy.

Outwith the hustle and bustle of the spacefaring settlements live the elusive Etarin, native to the jungles of the moon. Rarely seen by outsiders, their society remains unknown to the Empires that surround them. Even those living on the planet know little about their neighbours. When one does contact the outside world to trade for supplies, they hide their tall form beneath a heavy cloak, and do not speak- instead pointing to what they want to barter for. Their enigmatic nature has made them the subject of fierce curiosity, but as of yet, none have peered beneath the cloak to see the Etarin as they truly are.

### Ancienne: Remnants of a Lost Civilisation

#### Fact Sheet:
* Ancienne has no official capital, with only small scattered outposts across the planet's surface. The closest the planet would have is Chronos Orbital, an orbital platform servicing the aforementioned outposts and acting as more permanent housing for workers coming to and from the planet. The overall "permanent" population of researchers and explorers across the entire planet is around 10,000, though there may be thousands more "wildcat" operations which are undocumented.
* Ancienne is believed to be a major colony of an ancient empire, with around 85% of the planet's surface covered in ruined cities. Such an ecumenopolis is surely filled with incredible discoveries- if they can only be found. The outposts across the planet act as research bases and salvage hubs, bringing in items of interest and finding out what they are and how they work.
* Some plans exist to resettle the planet, but they're not particularly far into the process and none have yet garnered attention from TerraGov.

Humanity is far from the first civilisation to make it to space, and it is not going to be the last. Remnants of ancient civilisations dot the galaxy, occasionally being unearthed during groundwork on new colonies or by intrepid explorers. However, no find as of yet has been able to compete with Ancienne, in the Saramix system. An ancient ecumenopolis which has been tied to the long-extinct Terintan people, cities comprise about 85% of the planet's surface, with the rest consisting of salt deserts which are believed to have once been oceans. Damage to the planet's ecosystem are irreversible without extensive terraforming- the likes of which are presently being tried on Mars. That said, despite the lack of surface water and failing atmosphere, the planet is also a hotbed of activity due to the incredible finds hidden within its labyrinthine concrete jungle. Terintan technology was far ahead of our own, and as such almost everything that can be salvaged in sufficiently working condition to be studied is worth an incredible amount. This has attracted the brave, intrigued, and desperate to try to hash out a living exploring the perilous ruins and bringing back salvage.
