## Spinward Sector
The Spinward Sector has become somewhat of an important region for humanity in recent years. With the frontier having moved along past it towards the Imperial March, increased attention from both TerraGov and corporations, and the collapse of the Third Soviet Union, some modicum of stability has finally began to settle in around New Moscow. Most of the populated territory in this region is under the control of the Spinward Stellar Coalition, a nominally independent state which is getting attention from TerraGov in what appears to be a movement to bring the region into full integration- although this is obviously being resisted by the SSC.

Note that stability does not mean that the Spinward Sector is a safe, centralised area like the Core. Danger still permeates the region, with the limited oversight the SSC and TerraGov can provide being mostly focused on the main population centres. Piracy and violence are still commonplace, and away from the prying eyes of the regional governments, corporate powers vie for power against one another- with the ultimate prize being the freedom to operate in the area, and claim its mostly untapped mineral wealth for themselves.

### New Moscow: (Former) Home of Space Communism

#### Fact Sheet:
* The capital city of New Moscow is (the aptly named) New Moscow City. With a population of 12 million, New Moscow City is the most populous city not only of New Moscow, but of the entire SSC (of which it is the capital), and is famous for its brutalist architecture and generally oppressive urban style (though this has somewhat softened since the collapse of the Third Soviet Union). Since the collapse, the city's culture has flourished, and a remarkable amount of modern art and architecture has since blessed its streets. On Workers' Square there is a popular public theatre collective which does showings, and in general the city has become a major destination for artists.
* New Moscow is also the closest major human colony to Nanotrasen's spinward stations, and as such is a major destination for Nanotrasen workers. In addition, it serves as the major transport hub for the region, with major spaceports and shipyards ready to service travellers to the SSC.
* The planet has an earth-like climate, though is generally colder than the mother planet. The overall population is around 250 million.
* The primary exports from the planet are minerals, chemicals and agricultural goods, with manufacturing and tourism being other major sectors.
* As is to be expected of the former capital of the Third Soviet Union, Novayarossiyan is the official language of the planet- Galactic Common is generally spoken and understood in the major population centres, but those with no knowledge of Novayarossiyan will struggle as they venture further into the countryside.
* Space has now been corrupted by capitalism. All is lost.

New Moscow has had a tumultous past. Originally founded by and serving as the capital of the Third Soviet Union, the planet first came into humanity's grasp under less than ideal circumstances. Atrocities by the leaders of the TSU alongside political repression, famine, and a generally poor standard of living would come to a head in the August Revolution, seeing the fall of the Soviet leadership on the planet, and beginning the final collapse of the Third Soviet Union. Following this violence and the subsequent rise of the Spinward Stellar Coalition, the planet would go on to experience a renaissance, as the industrial capacity grew and culture flourished. Today, New Moscow is a shining example of excellence in humanity's border regions, and its meteoric rise seems set to continue.

### Gateway: Welcome to Terran Territory, Tiziran Friends

#### Fact Sheet:
* The Gateway system holds the dubious honour of being the furthest incorporated Terran territory from Earth in the Spinward direction. It is therefore the first stop for new arrivals to human space from the Tiziran Empire, provided they're following legal channels to do so.
* This important position makes the Gateway system a major hub, despite its location. It boasts the largest TerraGov citizenship of any territory within the Spinward Sector by several orders of magnitude, although it still pales massively in comparison to anywhere within the core.
* The main population centre in Gateway is Port Ellis, on the planet Amundsen. A cold, harsh world, Amundsen is still easily the most habitable of any body within the system. Additionally, Freeport Habitat, located in its orbit, is a major shipping destination, holding the honour of being the largest station outside of the core, with extensive shipyards, fuelling facilities, warehouses and cargo handling, an extensive commercial section for travellers, and the first checkpoint for documents within Terran jurisdiction, provided you're entering from the Spinward side.
* Gateway is also the last major anchorage prior to the Imperial March for TerraGov military vessels, under the terms of the Treaty of Atrakor. From here, Terran vessels are able to patrol the Spinward Sector, although at a reduced capacity- they cannot enter into the Imperial March, however, without breaching the treaty and risking a diplomatic incident with the Tiziran Empire.
