## Spinward Far Rim
The Spinward Far Rim is the furthest region of human-inhabited spinward space, taken up by three main sectors: the Spinward Sector (which is detailed in its own document), the Frontier Sector, and the Imperial March Sector. Of these, the first two are in direct human control, making up the extents of humanity's spinward expansion and giving way to lizard space. The third, the Imperial March, is a special case, however. The systems making up this sector are, under the terms of the Treaty of Atrakor, considered a demilitarised zone under the control of humanity. Neither human nor lizard military vessels are permitted access to this region, and this has created an issue of enforcement in the area for laws. As such, crime has been allowed to ferment here, with pirates picking at the valuable trade links between Humanity and Lizardkind. Talks to reopen the area to anti-piracy enforcement have been slow, with the lizards being hesitant to allow human vessels access to the vital region for fear of creating a springboard for a future invasion.

## The Imperial March
The Imperial March is the catchall term for the demilitarised zone comprising portions of the Spinward Far Rim and the Tiziran-owned Frontier March Sector. No military vessels of either side are permitted in the region, which has made this area a major hub for piracy and crime, plaguing merchant ships using the Kalon run to travel between human and lizard space- although there are no safer alternatives that would remain profitable.

### Val Corrin: Libertalia of the Starry Skies
> "Some people would call making a demilitarised zone where we can't even send anti-piracy fleets a bad idea. Given the situation with Val Corrin, I'll go one step beyond that- it was a colossal fuck-up, and until we can manage to talk the Lizards into some kind of arrangement to bomb these assholes the fuck off-world, we're stuck with them."

#### Fact Sheet:
* Val Corrin has no official capital. The largest settlement is Tabletop, located on top of the Great Green Table, a vast tepui close to the coast. Described as a new Tortuga, Tabletop is a small yet bustling city that's as full of (illicit) opportunity as it is rife with danger.
* Val Corrin is outwith of any official government's space. No gods, no masters. Well, except the Black Flag Council: the closest thing the planet has to a central authority, made up of representatives of several pirate organisations operating in the area. While their power is limited in preventative policing, they *are* quite capable of punishing rule-breaks after the fact. Mostly via violence. In fact, exclusively via violence.
* The native population of the planet, the Etarin, keep to themselves. Very occasionally one will wander to an offworlder settlement to trade for supplies, adorned with a concealing cloak. Nobody knows what they look like beneath the cloth.

Also known as the Smuggler's Moon, Val Corrin lies in the Exodus System: at the meeting point of TerraGov and Tiziran space, and simultaneously in neither. Its lush jungles, wide crystal clear oceans, impressive tepuis and cenotes, and pure white beaches are reminiscent of the islands of the Caribbean- under better circumstances, it may find itself as a resort world. However, it has attracted a different clientele, with less-than-ideal intents.

As a haven for criminals of all creeds and colours, Val Corrin is maintained as a neutral territory by its Articles of Agreement: a list of rules enforced by the Black Flag Council, who also act as an intermediary for government on the planet. Of course, governing those who do not wish to be governed is a difficult task, and the planet remains dangerous for those unable or unwilling to get their hands dirty in defending themselves. Should you find yourself on the Smuggler's Moon, keep a weapon close at hand, and never let your guard fully down.

If you're willing to put up with that, you can find almost anything on Val Corrin. Its position at the crossroads of empires gives it many routes to products, from illicit drugs, to more mundane items being sold without tariffs. The stock available is variable, and highly dependant on who you know; the black market consortiums won't sell their best to just anyone, so it helps to have a reputation amongst the criminal elements of the galaxy.

Outwith the hustle and bustle of the spacefaring settlements live the elusive Etarin, native to the jungles of the moon. Rarely seen by outsiders, their society remains unknown to the Empires that surround them. Even those living on the planet know little about their neighbours. When one does contact the outside world to trade for supplies, they hide their tall form beneath a heavy cloak, and do not speak- instead pointing to what they want to barter for. Their enigmatic nature has made them the subject of fierce curiosity, but as of yet, none have peered beneath the cloak to see the Etarin as they truly are; or at least, nobody has stepped forward to *say* they have.

### Ancienne: Remnants of a Lost Civilisation

#### Fact Sheet:
* Ancienne has no official capital, with only small scattered outposts across the planet's surface. The closest the planet would have is Chronos Orbital, an orbital platform servicing the aforementioned outposts and acting as more permanent housing for workers coming to and from the planet. The overall "permanent" population of researchers and explorers across the entire planet is around 10,000, though there may be thousands more "wildcat" operations which are undocumented.
* Ancienne is believed to be a major colony of an ancient empire, with around 85% of the planet's surface covered in ruined cities. Such an ecumenopolis is surely filled with incredible discoveries- if they can only be found. The outposts across the planet act as research bases and salvage hubs, bringing in items of interest and finding out what they are and how they work.
* Some plans exist to resettle the planet, but they're not particularly far into the process and none have yet garnered attention from TerraGov.

Humanity is far from the first civilisation to make it to space, and it is not going to be the last. Remnants of ancient civilisations dot the galaxy, occasionally being unearthed during groundwork on new colonies or by intrepid explorers. However, no find as of yet has been able to compete with Ancienne, in the Saramix system. An ancient ecumenopolis which has been tied to the long-extinct Terintan people, cities comprise about 85% of the planet's surface, with the rest consisting of salt deserts which are believed to have once been oceans. Damage to the planet's ecosystem are irreversible without extensive terraforming- the likes of which are presently being tried on Mars. That said, despite the lack of surface water and failing atmosphere, the planet is also a hotbed of activity due to the incredible finds hidden within its labyrinthine concrete jungle. Terintan technology was far ahead of our own, and as such almost everything that can be salvaged in sufficiently working condition to be studied is worth an incredible amount. This has attracted the brave, intrigued, and desperate to try to hash out a living exploring the perilous ruins and bringing back salvage.

### The TMV Providence and Tortuga Station: The Lost Cruiser
> "Listen, we're happy to let you pass on through- you just gotta pay us some protection. Red Sun don't like freeloaders using her routes."

#### Fact Sheet:
* The TMV Providence was one of the first wave of FTL-equipped large cruisers in the human arsenal. In the 2400s, the aging vessel was sent on an anti-piracy mission in the Spinward Sector to maintain supply lines during the Human-Lizard wars, from which it would never return.
* The story of the capture of the Providence is a legendary story amongst the Spinward Sector's pirates. If the tales are to be believed, the vessel was taken by a small crew against incredible odds- though in the process, it ran into a large asteroid, which it is still embedded in to this day. Tortuga Station was then built around the ship, using its reactor and engineering facilities.
* Tortuga Station is, alongside Val Corrin, considered one of the great bastions of piracy along the Kalon Run, taking advantage of the demilitarised zone to raid trading vessels travelling between human and lizard space. It's gained a hell of a reputation in the past 50 years.
* Tortuga owes much of its relative peace to the work of the Red Sun and her gang, the Solars. They form the defacto authority on the station, maintaining peace with an iron fist and requiring a cut from any independent pirates seeking to use Tortuga's services.

### New Jalisco: Frontier Life

#### Fact Sheet:
* New Jalisco was originally pioneered by a small Mexican resource extraction firm, since acquired by Nanotrasen and rolled into NTHI. As such, much of the population of the world originates from Mexico and other Latin American nations, and Spanish is widely spoken alongside Galactic Common there.
* The planet has only one permanent settlement, Vallarta, built up around and supporting the planet's spaceport. Other settlements are mostly temporary, springing up around pockets of resources and being packed up and moved when the veins run dry, leaving only automated infrastructure behind. To accommodate this purpose, much of the construction on the planet is done with modular prefabricated structures, which can be lifted in and away by air when required.
* New Jalisco is primarily a mining colony, with rich deposits of precious metals and iron, as well as a significant production of minor metals. Due to the planet's low population, very little refinement occurs on New Jalisco itself, with ore instead being shipped back to the galactic core for processing at larger industrial worlds.
* Life on New Jalisco is best described as "frontier living". The desert climate, general isolation, and hostile fauna all adds up to give an experience that's quite similar to the old stories of the wild west- although today the outlaws pack bigger guns, and the only horses are made out of steel.
* The planet has one orbital station, Veracruz Orbital, mostly utilised for the loading and unloading of massive cargo vessels that are too large to reach the planet's surface.

Pioneered about 100 years ago by a now defunct Mexican company, New Jalisco is today another cog in NTHI's extraction machine, providing ores and minerals to keep humanity's industries running. Despite its importance for resources, however, the planet is of little interest to most travellers, with its wide, dusty red sands, mesas and canyons being visually striking but isolated and underdeveloped.

New Jalisco has a small population, with most permanent residents being clustered around its capital, Vallarta, which is also the planet's only permanent settlement. It's a relatively busy port, all things considered, mostly because New Jalisco is a major producer of useful minerals, and they need shipped back to the core for refinement. Outside of Vallarta, most of the planet's population are temporary workers, brought in on rotation to man the mines (which are mostly automated), manage logistics, and generally keep the operations on New Jalisco ticking over and ore flowing offworld. Life this far into the frontier is austere and lonely, with luxuries being few and far between, and strong isolation from the galactic core. At least the pay is good.
