# Azik Interstellar
### In the Absence of Plasma
> "An inroad to the Tiziran market? You have my attention."
- Goro Ichikawa

One of the Tiziran Empire's most renowned shipbuilding concerns, Azik grew powerful and wealthy making luxury vessels for the millionaires of Tizira. Combining speed and elegance, their vessels have become the first choice for diplomats, high ranking politicians, wealthy celebrities, and even the royal family themselves. And yet, despite all this prestige, Azik finds themselves in a precarious situation following human contact. Much like all of Tizira's shipbuilders, they are faced with an inability to compete with humanity's equivalents, due in no small part to the lack of access to plasma. With some maneuvering of Tiziran import laws, they are able to source parts to construct ships at a competitive standard from outwith Imperial borders- but not in a way that is profitable in the long term.

Azik's agenda within the Syndicate is simple- they seek to gain close ties to Cybersun, and to support their efforts in the Spinward Sector to obtain a readily-available supply of cheap plasma. In doing so, they hope to make themselves the primary shipbuilders in the Tiziran Empire, breaking into the lucrative world of military contracting.

## Origins and History
Azik Interstellar grew out of the first wave of Tiziran Manifest Destiny, making its debut as a privately-owned corporation in the Kuzil system during the height of Tizira's (seizure of destiny). With the increasing size of the Tiziran demense, the various upper classes of the empire cried out for suitable transportation for their high station; and Azik was happy to provide, allowing them to carve a lucrative niche out of Tizira's heavily state-dominated shipbuilding industry. As Tiziran shipbuilding technology continued to advance, however, Azik found itself struggling to acquire the necessary resources to keep up; while their R&D departments were making constant strides forward, they couldn't translate this technological ascendancy into their actual construction. Plasma served as the main blocker; while Azik was able to source it in small quantities, the Tiziran Empire's general lack of access to the purple stuff meant that what little was available was generally funneled towards state-run enterprises such as Imperial Arsenal or Kurets Yards, leaving private companies such as Azik to fight for the remaining scraps. When the Human-Lizard wars rolled around, even this was rendered unobtainable as everything went towards the war effort.

After the Peace of Atrakor was signed, one of the key conditions in the terms of the treaty was in opening the Tiziran market, and this allowed Azik to finally source materials and parts from outwith the Empire. For a few decades, Azik was able to get by using imported human-made engines and plasma, but the high prices of these imports made their work far less lucrative. And so, Azik started looking for new, cheaper sources of plasma, in order to reclaim their profit margins and begin to develop a distinct edge over their rivals within the Tiziran shipbuilding sector; after all, once Azik became the only shipbuilder with homegrown FTL tech, how high could they climb?

## Azik within the Syndicate
Azik's golden ticket came in the form of Cybersun Industries, who had a proposition: they would provide Azik with a cheap source of high-grade plasma, and a valuable trading partner within the human market; in exchange, they wanted material support in a conflict against another human megacorporation, and an inroad to the notoriously difficult-to-navigate Tiziran market. Azik's board jumped at the opportunity; how could they refuse? And so, the company joined the Syndicate, committed to conflict against Nanotrasen.

Much of what Azik supplies to the Syndicate is in the form of ships; with Cybersun's plasma, they've been able to pioneer new ship designs that are sent to Cybersun for testing and use. The ships Azik produces for the corporate war effort are quite far removed from their typical luxurious fare; instead, they emphasise speed and maneuverability, and represent where Azik envisions themselves as the result of their agreement with Cybersun: as the Tiziran Empire's foremost shipbuilding concern, supplying the Imperial Navy with the next generation of Tiziran-made warship, unmatchable by their rivals in the sector.