# Interdyne Pharmaceutics
### Beneath a Sterile Surface
> "Excellent work, Kotone. Bringing Interdyne under our heel marks another verse in Nanotrasen's eulogy."
- Goro Ichikawa

## Origins
Founded in 2105 during Singapore's Second Economic Miracle, Interdyne Pharmaceutics was well placed to grow rapidly- and grow it did. Within 20 years, Interdyne was involved in 1/8th of humanity's novel drug development programs; was producing a substantial market share of humanity's total pharmaceutical supply; had subsidiaries on 4 continents; and was increasingly pushing the envelope on modern medical advancement. While it was drugs that made them money, it was this research that would make their name, as they would be at the forefront of the development of such technologies as genemodding, medical robotics, and perhaps most importantly, cloning.

This technological advancement went hand-in-hand with what appeared to the public to be a genuinely altruistic streak- Interdyne would funnel a portion of their wealth into private clinics and hospitals that would provide low-cost, high-grade treatment options to the masses. Add in their generics subdivision, which produces a wide range of medication for low prices, and Interdyne has done a lot to help humanity's collective health as a species.

Beneath this sterile surface, however, lurks a darker side.

The underbelly of Interdyne is a story of illicit experimentation, corporate sabotage, and criminal connections- all aimed at keeping them at the forefront of medical research. Rival corporations' labs being bombed. Genetic sampling at clinics done without patient knowledge or consent. Experimental drugs sold around the slums of megacities. Poor citizens of impoverished nations, snatched from the streets and never seen again. Centuries of crime, hidden behind the surface, where Interdyne was certain nobody could see it- unfortunately for them, however, such information could not be kept secret forever, and eventually it would find its way into the hands of Cybersun heiress, daughter of the Iron Shogun, and head of Ichikawa-Exagon, Kotone Ichikawa.

## Interdyne in the Syndicate
One day in 2560, a meeting of the Interdyne Board was interrupted by the sudden arrival of a Cybersun helo; and from its doors stepped Kotone Ichikawa, holding a heavy metal briefcase. With pleasantries established, she laid out the situation; within this case was irrefutable evidence of Interdyne's extensive criminal past, which she had "somehow" come into possession of, on a chit. It was, of course, backed up on a dead-man's switch; ready to find its way to the general public at a moment's notice, where it would surely burn Interdyne's reputation to the ground and prove *very* interesting to TerraPol. However, such a fate would be a waste of such good talent as Interdyne; no, the Golden Daughter had a better suggestion. She could hold that data safely and securely in a Cybersun datavault and help with suppressing any other possible leaks, but such a service would cost Interdyne: they would have to support her father's efforts against Nanotrasen. Caught in an impossible bind, the Interdyne board unanimously decided to accept the offer, becoming a Syndicate member against their will.

Under their agreement with Cybersun, Interdyne provides material support, both monetary and in the form of pharmaceutical supplies and medical machinery to the Syndicate's efforts in the Spinward Sector. They also provide medical research to Cybersun's medical subdivisions, which has assisted the corporation in gaining a foothold against Nanotrasen's own medical businesses. The deal is not entirely one-sided, however; Cybersun partially reciprocates the research agreement, as well as offering preferential rates on minerals and energy from Ichikawa-Exagon, and a partial agreement of non-competition between Interdyne and Cybersun.
