# MI13
### Information from the Shadows
> "This information, this "MI13". I cannot help but think that it is all too good to be true. Such accurate intel never comes for free."
> "And yet, we can't afford to turn it down, father. Your fears are well founded, but without that intel, we fight Nanotrasen blind and deaf."
- Goro and Kotone Ichikawa

## Origins
Nobody really knows where MI13 came from. Nobody really knows who MI13 are. So mysterious is the organisation that the only things that anyone in the Syndicate, the top brass included, know for sure is their name, and that the intel they provide is critical to the success of operations within the Spinward Sector.

## The Syndicate
MI13 acts as the intelligence branch of the Syndicate. While other members of the organisation operate their own intelligence gathering systems, none can hold a candle to MI13, who always seem to provide the best information that money can (or can't) buy. Such soft power naturally creates suspicion: none of the Syndicate's top brass actually trusts that MI13 has the organisation's best interests in mind, but they also know that without them, they lose access to the wealth of knowledge about Nanotrasen's operations that they bring.

MI13 operatives are secretive to the nth degree. Most field agents from the other members don't get to meet them- those that do report meeting spooks of the highest order, the sort who don't get involved in petty chit-chat or really reveal much of anything. They get in, do what they need to do, then get out.