# Muan Autonomous Sector
Comprising a number of star systems centred on the planet of Muan, the Muan Autonomous Sector represents the first major conquest of the Tiziran Empire, 4 centuries ago.

### Muan: Welcome to the Empire, Peons
#### Fact Sheet:
* Muan is the home planet of the Muan-Et, a race of humanoid amphibians.
* The surface of Muan is covered by deep swamps, both freshwater and saltwater. Dense canopies shroud the majority of the world from the sky. The few areas of dry land have been mostly taken up by colonial enclaves built by the Tiziran administration on the planet- including the new capital, Nidos.
* Muan's atmosphere is thick with spores from a variety of mushrooms that sprout on its trees. These spores are toxic to most other species, including the Tizirans, who must suit up and enclose themselves in dome-cities for survival on Muan's surface.
* Muan-Et architecture is dominated by trees. Homes are built into the roots of colossal mangroves, partially submerged into water, while freestanding structures house civic and commercial buildings, constructed from wood and mudbrick. This contrasts with the monumentalist dome-cities of their Tiziran overlords, where the lizards live in opulent enclaves sealed against the toxic atmosphere.

Located about 150 light years from Tizira, Muan is a planet that holds great significance to the Tiziran Empire- as it was Tizira's first grand conquest after taking to the stars. Following first contact with the Muan-Et Confederacy, Tizira engaged in a series of conflicts that would ultimately leave their enemies at their mercy- and creating Tizira's first client state. Since those heady days nearly 4 centuries ago, the Muan-Et have served the empire, faithfully (or not), and become colonial subjects in all but official documentation, with the resources of the confederacy being siphoned back towards Tizira, and lizards coming to displace the Muan-Et from their lands.

Muan itself is one of the few areas to mostly escape the grasp of the Tiziran settlers, due in no small part to its atmosphere. Home to a varied range of fungi, Muan's atmosphere is perpetually thick with spores- spores which are deeply toxic to most known life, excepting, of course, the Muan-Et. Therefore here they find a safe haven, able to maintain their traditions even in the face of Imperial laws designed to outlaw their language, ban their cultural festivals, and impose Tiziran values on their "esteemed subjects" (even if they are poorly enforced at the best of times). This has given the Muan-Et a better grasp over their history and discrete identity than most Tiziran subject nations- as well as more entrenched opposition. The Muan-Et watch the growing political instability on Tizira closely, ever vigilant for a time to shake off their bonds.

### Qilao: Fracking Hell
#### Fact Sheet:
* Once one of the Muan-Et's proudest colonies, Qilao has been turned by the Tizirans into a barren wasteland in their relentless extraction of the planet's plasma resources- one of the Tiziran Empire's few homegrown sources of the precious material. While initial extraction was evenly-paced, the increasing necessity of the purple stuff and dwindling access to readily-accessible deposits has driven the Tizirans to more and more desperate means on Qilao. Most recently, high intensity fracking has been adopted- destroying the planet's ecosystem and putting increasing pressure on the remaining Muan-Et populations there to leave their homes.
* The planet's population has dropped dramatically following the ramping-up in intensity of extraction operations. Buildings crumble to dust under the force of repeated earthquakes. Flare stacks pump poisonous waste products into the air. Water supplies become increasingly scarce as wastewater and fracking fluid pollute aquifers.

When the Muan-Et left Muan itself, their first colony was Qilao- given the Muani term for "hope" as a name, this gorgeous planet was known for its rolling fields and crystal-clear lakes, a perfect habitat for the amphibious Muan-Et. When the Tizirans came, however, their surveys for resources found a material previously unknown to the planet's inhabitants- deep plasma gas veins, buried under the surface. The lizards did as the lizards do with big mineral finds- resorted to drilling through the landscape, setting up refineries and industry to take advantage of this excellent opportunity. But the yields produced did not match expectations, and so there was only one solution for the Tizirans- more intensive operations. Eventually, high-pressure fracking was implemented, finally letting the plasma-hungry lizards at their prize; though at great cost to the planet's ecology. Today, Qilao is becoming more and more unliveable in the face of unprecedented pollution and constant earthquakes- though the Muan-Et try to persist through hacking coughs on this world that they have lived on for generations, the battle is almost lost, and the once thriving planet of millions now boasts a population of less than 50,000, and more leave every year. Meanwhile, the meagre amounts (relative to humanity, anyway) of plasma produced here go to fuel Tizira's industry and war machine.
